Where there is a heart, there is a dream!
心如在，梦就在！

Results The key nursing methods were to promote nurses fundamental diathesis to carry out mental care for the patients and the nursing during acetazolamide stress brain perfusion SPECT.
结果提高护理人员的基本素质；做好患者的心理护理和乙酰唑胺负荷脑血流灌注显像中的护理是关键性的护理措施。

Genome and transcriptome analyses will complement the proteome and genetic information available today.
基因组和转录组分析无疑将补充现有的蛋白质组和遗传学知识。

In any kind of need, please do not hesitate to contact us as we are always at your complete disposal.
如果有任何需要的那种、请不要犹豫与我们联系、我们一直在您完成处置。

Petals spatulate-emarginate, ca. 1 mm.
花瓣匙形微缺，约1毫米。

It works in all conditions and can work in extreme hot or cold without any problem
它可以在任何情况下，可以工作在极端高温或低温没有任何问题

Keep your scarf on, do your coat up.
围好围巾，扣好衣服。

The New Attack Submarine achieves the right balance of core military capabilities and affordability.
新的攻击型潜艇拥有平衡的性能和先进的核动力系统.

This is online map of the address "Shen Xi Xiang Shui Quan Wan Cun , Wutai County, Xin Zhou City, Shanxi Province, China" .
这是地址“中国山西省忻州市五台县神西乡水泉湾村”匹配的在线电子地图。

He that lives long suffers much.
长命者多苦难.

The expression about color difference and dyestuff concentration were got by multinomial fit.
用多项式拟合色差与染料浓度的表达式。

Notwithstanding his youth, Master Andrea was a very skilful and intelligent boy.
另一方面, 纠正错误的浪费时间和抑制学生的积极性却是不言而喻的.

I think that woman is choking!
我想那位女士噎到了！

Indeed, as we found when we also reached the spot, it was something very different.
的确，当我们也到达那边时，我们发现根本不是发现什么宝藏了。

Martina Cole was born and brought up in Essex.
玛蒂娜·科尔土生土长于艾塞克斯郡。

I don't know what the hell you two thought you were gonna pull off.
我不知道你们俩怎么会认为能熬过去。

Generative teaching is a kind of new concept emerged in the course of curriculum reform currently.
生成性教学是当前课程改革中所倡导的新的教学理念。

For college graduates, the main problem isn't that they don't have skills;
对于本科毕业生而言，主要问题不是他们不具备技能；

He had been one of the game's most versatile athletes.
两名运动员一直在忍受轻微的伤痛。

Like most in the renewable energy race, the wind industry is eager to improve reliability and cut costs.
有如其他可再生能源的竞赛，风电行业急于提高可靠性和降低成本。

The gas turbine's compactness, weight, and multiple fuel applications make it a natural power plant for offshore platforms.
该燃气轮机的体积小，重量，多种燃料的应用程序使之成为海上平台的天然发电厂。

Worryingly, with only weeks before the law comes into effect, it has not yet been announced who will oversee it.
更令人焦虑的是，距这部法律实施已经没有几周时间了，但是现在还没有宣布谁来监督这部法律。

You've seen it before, and they will topple themselves, simply because they will be totally out of touch with the reality of what their people want.
你见过的话，他们会推翻自己，仅仅是因为他们将完全脱离了的现实中的人们想要什么。

Yale University researchers set out to determine how facial features like eyebrow shape, eyelids and wrinkles affect facial expressions.
耶鲁大学的学者们开始研究脸部特征如眉毛的形状，眼皮和皱纹如何影响面部表情。

Multiple - unit correlation detection is used to lower false alarm probability in most laser warning receivers.
为了降低虚警概率,激光警戒接收机大多采用多元相关探测技术.

A3 D potential flow theory is carried out to solve the wave-induced coupled motions be-tween two ships.
本文采用三维势流理论求解两船在波浪中相互干扰的耦合运动。

If you want to catch a man's attention, don't bother fluttering your eyelashes or flicking your hair. Just practise your pout .
如果你想吸引男人的目光，不必费心去眨动睫毛或捋头发，只需性感地撅撅嘴就可以了。

For evaluating the relationship between course stability and transverse stability of the towed ship, the four degree equations of the towed ship is used in the towing system dynamic model.
为了考察被拖船航向稳定性与横向稳性的关系以及波浪载荷作用的影响，被拖船采用水平面四自由度运动方程，并引入了波浪的作用力和力矩。

I find it close to useless for everyone except HR.
我发现它对于大家来说都近乎一无是处，除了人力部。

Mainly faces medium and high keeps off the hotel to provide the hotel thing service.
主要面向中、高挡酒店提供酒店用品服务。

It is important for all age groups to keep their sugar and fat intake in moderation.
不论属哪个年层的人士,进食糖份及脂肪均应适可而止。

The impact of the car hitting the tree killed the driver.
司机死于汽车撞到树后产生的冲击力.

Soft and comfortable & full of elasticity take good care of your skin.
轻柔舒适&富有弹性，给使用者的皮肤以精心呵护。

A loose and relaxed hitting shoulder is a key factor in getting the racquet footcontact point.
为了解决问题你一定要学习用肩膀挥拍作为关键,而不是手腕和前臂.

Consequently, China and Russia will continue to be pragmatic partners of convenience, but not partners based on deeper shared world views and strategic interests.
因此，中国和俄罗斯将继续作为便利品的国际合作夥伴，但合作不在基于深层次意见和战略利益交流。

Charles: I like Mc Donald`s Mc chicken better. It is juicier.
我更喜欢麦当劳的麦可鸡.没那么干.

The frequency spectrums of some indirect fuel measures in supercritical once-through boiler are analyzed. It is concluded that frequency spectrums of different measures are complementary.
通过对超临界直流锅炉燃料量间接测量信号频谱特性的研究，指出了不同信号具有互补的频谱特性。

Does high forecast uncertainty preclude effective decision support?
高预报不确定性是否妨碍有效的决策支持?

Please connect me to this number.
请帮我接通这个号码.

I picked up on some chatter.
我截下了一些通话聊天。

My view is that Chinese students are very good at understanding on what they read,but not so good at speaking and listening.
我觉得中国学生阅读的理解力非常好，但听说能力没那么好。

The study of contacts of rough surfaces is a young and interdisciplinary field.
粗糙表面接触研究是一门年轻的交叉学科。

Objective: Chronic erosive gastritis is a common and recurrent disease.
目的：慢性糜烂性胃炎是一种常见病、多发病。

But the order in which "higher" and "lower" needs are met has little bearing on how much they contribute to life satisfaction and enjoyment, Diener said.
但是，各种需要层级的高低受到该种需要对被调查者的生活满意度与欢愉度所做出的贡献的影响。

Areyou going by land or by sea?
你打算由陆路去还是由海路去?

I felt guilty not to able to help my brother at the moment when he was out of work.
我感到内疚，不能够帮助我的哥哥在那一刻，他失去了工作。

Clinical Study on Treatment of 53 Cases of Chronic Injury of Soft Tissues with Intracutaneous Catgut Embedding Therapy
皮内植线治疗慢性软组织损伤53例临床研究

Objective To make out the effective method of emergency materials management.
目的探讨院前急救物资管理的有效方法。

Fashion avantgarde design concept.
时尚、前卫的设计理念。

The tofu was too spicy for him.
那块豆腐对他来说太辣了。

Press the book under a weight like books/bricks for as long as you can, a few days is good.
用厚书或砖块压住这本书，时间尽可能长，几天时间差不多。

If you know someone who is a consultant, you should talk to that person.
如果你知道有人是顾问，你应该找人。

Grit goes beyond willpower, but willpower is a necessary component of grit.
坚毅比意志力含义更深远, 所以意志力是坚毅的一部分.

Let's adjourn for now and continue this discussion next time.
现在咱们先暂停讨论，下次再继续讨论这个问题。

The Americans like fashion and beautiful clothes, so you should buy some famous brands.
美国人喜欢时尚漂亮的衣服，那你就应该买些名牌服饰。

English has made me more enthusiastic more confident and more passionate!
英语让我更加热情、更加自信、更加充满激情！

An important one was protection from disease, suspected to be a consequence of the increased risk of infection that living in settlements brings.
一个重要的主题是对疾病的保护，怀疑是居住环境带来的感染风险增加的结果。

He dropped his sausage on the pavement and someone's dog ate it, mustard and all.
他把香肠丢在人行道上，不知是谁家的狗将香肠甚至连带芥末都吃个了精光。

She was a terrific ship, and a masterpiece of naval construction.
很大的战舰，是军舰建造史上的一项杰作。

o Get a 20-minute chair massage.
在躺椅上，享受20分钟的按摩。

Seashore paspalum appears to be a green solution that's par for the course.
海滨雀稗似乎是高尔夫球场的绿色解决方案。

Some plants flower year in and year out.
有些植物一年到头都开花.

In simulations, two different cases of the compensator are considered with and without accessorial control of ASVG.
在仿真实例中，考虑了在补偿规律中有无静止无功发生器的附加控制作用两种不同的情形。

All told Mr Bush's tax policy may have played a modest role in boosting a temporary revenue surge.
综上所述，布什先生的税收政策可能在推动短期的收益增长中了扮演一个中性的角色。

By utilizing database and data mining techniques, the algorithm is set up for the losses.
应用数据库知识和数据挖掘技术，提出这两类单程票流失的算法。

Kiosks should be optimized for first - time use.
信息亭应该针对首次使用进行优化.

Strive toward a new complexion of irrigation works in Guangxi
总结经验，理清思路努力开创广西水利工作的新局面

She turned her gaze from one person to the other.
她把凝视的目光从一个人转向另一个人.

The selected calluses exhibited higher I50 and higher relative amount of growth in the presence of ethionine .
该愈伤组织在含乙硫氨酸的培养基上表现出较高的半抑制剂量和相对生长量。

Surveillance for emerging diseases contributes to global security.
监督新出现的疾病有助于全球安全。

Recently, rapid warming of the Arctic has made it possible for the Northwest Passage navigation.
北极近年迅速变暖使西北航道的通航成为可能。

Demographic and clinical characteristics of individuals in a bipolar disorder case registry.
双相障碍档案上的人口统计的特点和临床特征。

The results showed that the microstructure of hypereutecticcast iron is significantly influenced by temperature of slurry.
试验结果表明,半固态浆料温度对试样的半固态组织有明显的影响.

The problem is to find the real man or woman behind all the tension.
问题是找到所有紧张背后的真实人物.

Methods: The model of focal cerebral ischemia in rats was established by Suture occlusion method.
方法：采用线栓法制备大脑中动脉缺血-再灌注模型。

electrolytic process
电解法;电解过程;电解影印

The smart ones save their money and invest it or start businesses.
聪明的情人会攒一些钱，然后用这些钱去投资或者做点生意。

She arranged the flowers in a vase.
她把花瓶里的花插好了。

The law and ethical relation question, an important subject of studying in jurisprudence.
法律和道德的关系问题，法理学研究的一个重要课题。

The Ministry of Manpower of Singapore conducted interviews with foreign domestic workers during their initial months of employment to check for any adjustment problems.
新加坡的人力部在外籍家庭雇工就业开始的几个月中对其进行采访，通过检查了解是否有需要调整的问题。

The satellite communication performance and scenario with failed satellite are tested.
同时也进行了卫星失效前后的卫星通信性能的测试。

One of the program's priorities is to combine family and work life and develop more flexible and effective forms of work organization and support services.
该项目的一个优先事项就是兼顾家庭与工作生活，制订更加灵活和更加有效的工作组织形式和支助服务形式。

The faltering economic recovery is Mr Obama's and the Democrats'main political liability, of course.
当然,经济复苏疲弱是奥巴马和民主党的主要政治包袱.

This switching structure supports both point-to-point and point-to-multi-points broadcasting transmission with superior capacity expansion performance.
该交换结构支持点到点和点到多点广播两种传送方式，具有很好的容量扩充性能。

Use of modern root canal therapy complete relieve of the toothache pain.
运用现代根管治疗术彻底解除牙痛之苦。

This is the key of Room 208.
这是208房间的钥匙.

I'm going to purchase the cleanser from the dry skin line too.
我还打算买这个适合干性皮肤系列中的洁面乳.

This article focuses on the history and current debates regarding global commodity markets.
本词条以世界商品市场的历史和当前的辩论为重点。

Nixon's voice actually turned out to be that of impersonator Rich Little.
喜剧演员以乱说英语来换取人们的笑声.

Design of Architectural Space According Site Spirit & Creation Analysis of the Joint Construction of Yiwu Library and Archives
塑造符合场所精神的建筑空间&义乌市图书馆档案馆合建工程创作分析

Remember all this is associated with releases or potential releases.
记住，所有的这些都是与释放，或者潜在的释放相关。

Both silhouette preserving and shading preserving criteria are satisfied by applying a new error metric-constrained normal cone to view-independent simplification.
算法为地表的简化提出一种新的基于受限法向锥的误差计算方法，使得模型简化具有轮廓保持和光照保持特性.

The capacitance of a line has two related voltage effects.
线路电容对线路电压有两个影响.

Results suggested that: the chlorinating agent types have a significant impact on the experiment from a statistical perspective.
结果表明：氯化剂种类的选择高度显着。

Well let me tell ya * her mom is hearing about this.
噢，让我告诉*她的妈妈正听着呢。

As an extra precaution, an adult should always test food temperature before serving to child.
作为额外的预防措施，一个成年人应该始终测试食物温度前儿童服务。

In low bit-rate image compression, only the low-frequency DCT coefficients are computed, which will be encoded by adopting the new algorithm so as to reduce the arithmetic operations greatly.
在图像变换编码时，利用新算法可只计算需要被编码和传输的低频变换系数，以大大减少运算量。

The child may be moderately preoccupied with touching, smelling, orr tasting objects orr people.
孩子可能中度地沉迷于对物体或人的触摸、嗅或者品尝。

COMPANY NAME: CHANGDE JIADA ELECTRICAL WIRE AND CABLE CO. LTD.
公司名称：常德市佳达电线电缆有限公司。

The player is standing just inside the boundary.
运动员正站在球场边缘。

