Youth juggle ‘slash’ careers
Liu Yang, 29, works as a business consultant at a Beijing-based listed company from 9 am to 6 pm. But her working hours don’t end there. She makes bow ties manually in the evening to sell at her own brand store, Winz. She is also operating a WeChat public account.Extra jobs, like the ones Liu juggles, used to be called sideline occupations. But now people like Liu have their own special title: slashers, a term coined by US columnist Marci Alboher in 2007. Slashers balance multiple careers or vocations simultaneously.Now the idea of having a “slash” career has also gained momentum in China. A 2015 survey conducted by 51job.com shows that four out of 10 office workers have two jobs simultaneously.This wave of “slashers” happened for a number of reasons, according to Hu Xiaowu, deputy director of the Institute of Urban Science at Nanjing University. “In modern China, economic security no longer exists, unless you create it,” he said. “To some extent, having multiple income streams is one of the best ways to create stability.”He also pointed out that it’s becoming more common for people to combine work that offers economic security with work that feeds a passion. “Since there is so much work that can be done flexibly now, it’s easy to do many kinds of work in the same workweek or even the same workday,” he said.Experiences as advantages“Slash” careers reflect growing areas of expertise, according to Pang Jinhua (pen name Situ Zhengjin), a senior financial commentator and deputy chief editor of Teller magazine. Professional knowledge and specialized services have become the crux of China’s post-industrial society. Pang argues that “slash” careers are the best proof of that shift.In today’s mobile society, having a range of career experiences can be an advantage. They allow you to cultivate diverse fallback options, or compete for jobs that require a wide range of skills.Having a broad knowledge base can help slashers perform better at any single job, Pang explained. “Many people who have ‘slash’ careers tell me that each career informs and illuminates the other. Being able to choose which thing they want to pour energy into keeps them from getting bored and restless. There is always something to work on, and inevitably some new challenge arises,” he said.However, he warns that, while some people may thrive in ‘slash’ career, juggling jobs is not for everyone. It can be a challenge to learn new skills, establish yourself in an unfamiliar field and find a balance between work and down time. “Only when a slash career fulfills your passions or makes you less anxious about finances does it help you lead a rewarding life,” he said.
