Find the perfect frozen delight
The season of ice cream treats is in full swing. Nothing captures pure joy and innocence like an ice-cream cone dripping down your hand.But have you ever wondered why some ice cream just stands apart from all the others? What really makes good ice cream? Well, here’s how to tell high-quality ice cream without even tasting it.Let the ingredients speakHigh-quality ice cream, often referred to as premium and super premium, is always made with real vanilla, nuts, chocolate or fruit. On the other hand, if you’ve ever looked closely at the ingredients in ice cream from less fancy brands, you may have noticed that they only say “vanilla flavored” or “chocolate flavored”. This is because they don’t contain real vanilla or chocolate.Check the butterfat contentWhat difference does butterfat make? Besides making ice cream taste less like frozen milk, butterfat gives the product a creamy texture and a mellow flavor. In order to even be called ice cream in the United States, the product must contain at least 10 percent butterfat, according to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) regulations. High-quality brands of ice cream usually contain anywhere from 13 to 17 percent butterfat.Judge by the amount of mix-insHave you ever noticed the amount of mix-ins in high quality brands? You almost can’t stick your spoon into them without hitting a piece of candy, nut, or whatever mix-in they contain. With some of the average brands, however, you really have to dig to find the mixed in goodies.Take home the heavier oneIce cream mixtures have air pumped into them as they freeze. Air is essential, or ice cream would be as hard as rock. While the legal limit for the amount of air (called overrun) in the US is 100 percent, the less air added to ice cream, the higher quality it is. A more dense ice cream will be creamier on the palate and will melt more slowly in the mouth.But how can we tell which ice cream has less air in it? Well, one thing you should know about ice cream is that it’s usually sold by volume, not by weight. Tubs may be equal in size, but one ice cream may be denser than another and therefore weigh more.
