Counseling for life
It’s a nightmare for Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST): within a week, two students committed suicide by jumping off dorm buildings.Officials from the university are reluctant to give interviews.“We had a hard time calming down students who were shocked at the suicides,” said Zhang Jingyuan, head of HUST’s center for research and guidance for students’ development.“Media coverage may arouse some students’ negative emotions again. Suicide can be contagious,” Zhang said.The university reacted promptly to the first suicide on October 23.Advisors and class leaders conducted dorm-to-dorm checks to find students suffering depression. Then psychologists offered one-on-one counseling to them.Notice boards publicizing tips for identifying peers’ mental problems and offering help were set up in front of dorm buildings. Leaflets carrying similar information were handed out to each dorm.However, the second suicide came seven days later.Both students were described as men of few words. Their schoolmates didn’t see anything to indicate suicide.Zhang revealed that the two students had been bothered by mental disorders. But the school didn’t know this until the students’ close friends outside school and their parents unveiled the truth after the suicides.According to Zhang, there are only three full-time counselors working in the university’s counseling center for its 60,000 students. He complained: “It’s unrealistic to rely only on counselors to detect students’ mental problems.”Some universities in the US may be able to offer solutions to Zhang’s worries. They have established programs to train students to be the bridge between troubled friends and counselors.At Worcester Polytechnic Institute, at Worcester, Massachusetts, US, young people in the Student Support Network role play to learn how to detect SOS signals from their schoolmates.They also practice how to gently persuade emotionally troubled students to go for professional help.To develop such empathy, many universities in China have organized campus events to popularize knowledge about mental health. But these are not that attractive to students.Ke Juanjuan, 24, is pursuing a master’s degree in English translation at HUST. Ke has found that few of her peers will pay attention to activities about mental health when they are not troubled by it.Rather than bombard students with the words “mental health”, Ke suggested the school organize lectures and workshops concerning study, job-hunting and relationships. She explained: “Students care about these topics. They tend to have problems in these areas and may thus get stuck in depression.“By helping students better deal with these problems, the school can effectively prevent self-inflicted injury and suicide among students.”Effective prevention comes from long-term education for life instead of temporary intervention to meet an emergency, said Hu Yi’an. Hu delivers a course of lectures on life and death at Guangzhou University. He worries that universities have paid little attention to education for life.“Education for life helps students respect and love life so they won’t resort to ending their lives when they have difficulties,” said Hu.According to Hu, the principles can be incorporated into everyday teaching.For example, teachers should make it clear to students that they are not studying chemistry to obtain a diploma or find a job; it’s a science that can, say, invent medicine to make people’s life better.Hu is also concerned that some universities are conveying discriminatory message that will hold back students from seeking help.When HUST conducted the dorm-to-dorm examination, students with poor academic performance were paid special attention. In March, Peking University also released a controversial policy, which required teachers to have a chat with students “with biased thinking”.Yu Xiaojie, 17, is a freshman from Communication University of China, Nanjing. He has an inferiority complex about being from the countryside. He’s also nervous about getting on with fellow students.Yu has turned to strangers online, most of whom are as pessimistic about college life as he is. “I’m afraid of being outspoken in front of my teachers and classmates. They may treat me as if I were a troubled kid,” said Yu.However, Hu suggested that students step out of their comfort zone to seek real-life communication.
