Homes for young folk to rent
Sun Xiang, 24, a video editor for Hong Kong Satellite TV in Shenzhen, moved into a new one-bedroom apartment at the end of last year. She pays only 600 yuan per month for the 30-square-meter flat in downtown Shenzhen. At a time of rent rising in China this sum is affordable for the graduate, whose monthly salary is 3,500 yuan.“It is a publicly *subsidized apartment. It’s not difficult to get. You just hand in your application,” said Sun.According to the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, 10 million homes will be built this year to help solve China’s accommodation problem. Some 2.2 million of these will be public rental homes, six times the number built last year.What’s different from previous years is that increasing numbers of projects will accept young renters.Rent risesThe National Bureau of Statistics report shows the rent cost in Beijing rose 11.4 percent in August, further driving up the local CPI. Rising rent means that many graduates struggle to find *affordable homes. They are forced either to live in substandard accommodation in downtown areas; or to live on the city’s *outskirts and face long commutes every day.These young people are nicknamed “sandwich layer” – they cannot afford to buy their own properties, but are not qualified to receive subsidies.Now the government is coming to their aid. A State Council meeting on September 19 announced a plan to lower the *threshold so that more young workers can be included in public rental housing schemes. Most of the properties provided are 40-square-meter apartments, which are suitable for young people.Several cities are leading the way. Guangdong, for example, launched a public rental housing plan in May last year.It aims to help people on low incomes, particularly graduates, who struggle to find affordable accommodation.It is based on the public housing policy in Hong Kong, which was launched in 1993.  In Hong Kong the average public housing rent is 1,320 HK dollars (1,082 yuan), one third of the market price; 29 percent of its residents live in 710,000 public homes.According to Sun, it is quite easy to apply for public housing in Shenzhen. If you are under 26, a graduate with a bachelor’s degree or above, unmarried and have a stable job in Shenzhen, all you need is an identification card, education and working certificate. The procedure is simple. The applications are handed to the employers and ones’ income has generally not been considered so far.WorriedThere are still some problems. As many of the properties are not furnished, young renters are worried about the cost of furnishing them and buying equipment.The unsuitable location of some projects keeps applicants at bay. The Futian district, in central Shenzhen, has created 550 public homes. But nearly half of the apartments are empty.Yang Jun, director of the construction bureau in Futian district, said most of the public properties are located in the south while local residents are used to living in the northern part of the district.What’s more, some substandard accommodation in the *marginal areas of the district are even cheaper than public rental homes, which are half the market price.Shi Yongqing, chairman of Centaline Property Agency Limited in Hong Kong, said locations for public housing are carefully considered. “In Hong Kong the government saves space for public houses when planning urban areas,” said Shi.Cheng Lianyuan, head of Chaoyang district in Beijing, said that local government is ceaseless in its effort to expand public housing and young worker’s needs are considered.The houses will mainly be for young professionals who are based in the district. So, most of the properties are a 20-minute bike ride from the metro.
