How about a nice engineering boy?
Male engineering graduates have pretty good prospects today; but don’t assume that means that young women are falling over themselves to go out with one. The fact is that, at least from the point of view of their female contemporaries, these guys fail to impress. Ask a girl from Tsinghua, Beijing or Huazhong University and it’s more than likely that you’ll get a list of complaints.They say that the typical male engineer keeps a messy dorm and can’t bring himself to say more than a few words to a girl. So unappealing are they that Huang Lijiao, journalism major at Hunan, says, "You’d have to be insane to have anything to do with one." But most of all - the thing that really annoys the girls - is that they have no idea about romance. Hygiene issuesHanxue studies at an engineering college. She says that working in the library can be a real problem for female students. Will a girl be able to find a seat further enough away from the hundreds of malodorous young men who hog all the tables? The stink is worst when women students have to endure public classes with the guys. Hanxue says, "I hate that class. Why can’t the boys shower? You need to take a oxygen mask with you if you want to get through to the end." She adds that that, of course, the smell is worst in the summer months. Such dreary dress senseAt Huazhong University of Science and Technology the ratio of male to female engineers is about 7 to 1. The girls say that if you look out of the window from a high floor of the dormitory building at midday the scene is like something from a black and white movie, but less colorful. Hundreds, thousands of guys, all dressed the same: black and white, or gray. One student comments on the dullness of the male uniform: "Black pants and Antas. It looks ridiculous. They’re like extras in a Steven Chow movie." Otakus: Joined at the hip.It’s said that at engineering colleges the guys tend to hang about in small groups: That’s about the limit to their socializing and the reason they’re known as "Otakus". According to Wangyi, a civil engineering major at the Dalian Institute of Technology, the male students do everything together. They have class, play basketball, eat midnight snacks with each other; they do nothing on their own, or with a girl. Practical but distinctly unromanticXiaofang, of Hunan University, was subjected to a kind of informal social survey by one young man she encountered on her way home this summer.He asked her, very nervously, "I’ve been wondering. Say I wanted to win the heart of a liberal arts girl. How would I go about it?" Amazingly, Xiaofang reports, the guy was communications engineering major.Xiaofang’s assessment of him can stand for the general feeling of female students toward their male counterparts: "They’re practical but emotionally stupid. No doubt they’re good with money, but when it comes to romance they haven’t got a clue. They don’t even understand that sometimes a girl needs something a little more from a guy than just a daily phone-call."
