Fresh taste of simplicity
Quick, easy and refreshing, salads are always a pleasure in summertime. But while it’s often just about vegetables and a bit of sauce, a salad can be as varied as the countries in the world and offers something for everyone.Now, meet some of the iconic salads from across the globe.US: Waldorf SaladThough hardly the kind of salad to aid weight loss, the Waldorf Salad offers mouthfuls of crunchy indulgence. Created at New York’s Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in 1896, not by a chef but by the dining room manager Oscar Tschirky, the Waldorf Salad has been a favorite in the US ever since.This classic salad is simplicity at its best. Peel two raw apples and cut them into small pieces taking care to remove any seeds from the bowl. Chop some celery, add a few walnuts and mix everything with the apples. Dress the salad with mayonnaise and a dash of lemon juice and you’re done.Grapes can be added for extra flavor and in restaurants the salad is often served on a bed of lettuce.UK: Ploughman’s SaladWhile The Guardian describes the UK as “a country where in cafes and casual restaurants it is deemed acceptable to serve a bit of tomato, onion and grated carrot on undressed iceberg lettuce and call it a salad”, a more traditional salad in Britain is the Ploughman’s Salad.This salad combines chunks of cheese, fresh green leaves, pickled vegetables, bread and chutney. It is derived from the Ploughman’s Lunch, an old-fashioned pub meal that was nominated as a cultural icon of Britain and is traditionally accompanied by a glass of beer.Italy: Caprese SaladOriginating in the southwest island of Capri in Italy and reflecting the colors of the Italian flag (red, white and green), the Caprese is probably the most well known Italian salad. While very simple to put together it bursts with fresh Italian flavors.This traditional Italian salad consists of tomatoes, sliced mozzarella cheese and basil leaves, drizzled with olive oil. Though the salad is delightfully easy to make, it requires the best ingredients. The tomatoes, for instance, must be ripe and juicy.Greece: Horiatiki SalataOn the menu in almost every Greek restaurant, there is the Horiatiki Salata (“village salad”). But in the non-Greek world, it is known simply as the “Greek Salad”.A typical Greek Salad consists mainly of quartered tomatoes, thick slices of cucumber and sliced red onions. Sometimes green peppers and olives are added, but it should never include lettuce. Feta cheese is either diced and mixed in with the salad, or placed on top as a whole piece. In the latter case, Greeks break the Feta into chunks with a fork and mix it in with the rest of the salad at the table.
