“Just let me mansplain”
If you are a woman, do you sometimes get annoyed when a man assumes you are an ignorant little girl and tries to explain something to you? And it often turns out he knows no more on the subject than you do.Now you have an English word to describe this irritating behavior — “mansplaining”. The word has been included in Oxford Dictionaries’ online database and is defined as: “v. (of a man) explain something to someone, typically a woman, in a manner regarded as condescending and patronizing.”According to an Atlantic article tracing the cultural history of “mansplaining”, the word began its life in 2008 when writer Rebecca Solnit wrote an essay titled “Men explain things to me” published in the Los Angeles Times. Solnit described the time a man explained a book to her without realizing that she wrote it. Solnit didn’t coin the word “mansplaining” herself, but she drew attention to the problem. In her words:“Every woman knows what I’m talking about. It’s the presumption that makes it hard, at times, for any woman in any field; that keeps women from speaking up and from being heard when they dare; that crushes young women into silence by indicating, the way harassment on the street does, that this is not their world. It trains us in self-doubt and self-limitation just as it exercises men’s unsupported overconfidence.”Gone viralSolnit’s essay struck a chord with so many readers that “mansplaining” popped up in the comment sections of many websites. It entered the mainstream, and it began to be used not only in the workplace and academia, but also in politics. In the US media for example, you will often read stories criticizing Republicans for “mansplaining” birth control to women. There are also headlines such as “GOP (Republican party) tries to woo women voters by mansplaining that they shouldn’t care about equal pay” and “Is Congress guilty of mansplaining to Janet Yellen?”After “mansplaining”, a group of “man”-prefixed words appeared to shame men for their bad behavior. There is “manspreading”, the habit some men have of taking up too much space in public places, especially spreading their legs when sitting on public transit. There is “manterrupt”, coined from “man” and “interrupt”. The latest “man”-word is “manslamming”, coined recently by New York magazine to describe “the sidewalk M.O. (modus operandi) of men who remain apparently oblivious to the personal space of those around them.”These words tend to catch on because they describe behaviors that men usually adopt unconsciously and that women find annoying or sometimes offensive, says Megan Garber in The Atlantic. According to Garber, these words point to forms of privilege that men think they are rightfully entitled to.  These words are descriptive as well as prescriptive. Garber says: “They both describe a behavior and strongly advise against it. They hint at that the troubling fact that privilege tends to be highly apparent to everyone except the people who enjoy it.”
