Make your love fun
Lovebirds, it’s time to start planning out-of-the-box date ideas for the upcoming Valentine’s Day! After all, this is not only a memorable moment to celebrate with your soulmate, but it’s also an opportunity to realize your sweetheart’s fantasies and show off.So, don’t send the traditional roses and chocolates or have a romantic candle-lit dinner! Make your Valentine’s Day more special with the following mind-blowing dating ideas.Surprise them with a reunionNo one wants to spend Valentine’s Day alone, at least not those who already have a boyfriend or girlfriend. So, if possible, stay with your love.Entry Level: If you and your loved one are in the same city, take them out directly.Master Level: Fly over to see your sweetheart, if you two are in different cities.There is a beautiful Chinese song called I Came Over the Ocean to See You, by well-known Taiwanese singer and songwriter Jonathan Lee. Why not do that it in reality? Keep your plan a secret and show up suddenly. You can learn from the romantic movie Sleepless in Seattle (1993). The protagonist Sam Baldwin, played by Tom Hanks, flew to Seattle to meet Annie Reed, played by Meg Ryan, at the top of the Empire State Building.Create something memorableIn this digital age, even if it’s impossible to reunite with your loved one, you can still express your feelings in a unique way.Entry Level: Take a photo of yourself and send it to your girlfriend.Master Level: Shoot a short video.In the South Korean TV series My Love From the Star (2013), Cheon Song-yi sends her lover a short video in which she dances before asking for his hand in marriage. Sometimes, it’s difficult to express your emotions face to face. So make a short video to show your feelings. You can simply talk, dance and pose in cute ways.Give ’em what they wantGiving gifts matters on Valentine’s Day, but avoid giving something you like. Give your partner what they really want to satisfy them.Entry Level: Buy all the things on their shopping wish list secretly.Master Level: Do the impossible for them.In the movie Definitely, Maybe (2008), the protagonist spends years buying copies of Jane Eyre from secondhand stores in order to find the copy his beloved once lost. The book was given to her by her father with an inscription, and it meant a lot to her. At the bottom of everyone’s heart are wishes that remain unfulfilled. Show your partner you care by helping them realize their dream.Express your feelings in a special wayFor those who’ve had a secret crush for a long time, Valentine’s Day is your opportunity.Entry Level: Directly tell him or her by yourself.Master Level: Seek help from others.If you don’t have the courage, why not let your friends help out? In the movie New Police Story (2004), Chen Guorong, played by Jackie Chan, asks his fellow police officers to join in a show of affection for his loved one. Perhaps you can ask friends to join in sending your affections to someone special. Plus, many platforms like 21st Century’s WeChat have activities you can participate in to air your feelings in the open.
