Eat and be merry
Thanksgiving is almost here! It’s celebrated on the fourth Thursday in November every year (Nov 27 this year). Thanksgiving is about being thankful for the things you have, family reunion and lavish feasts. 21st Century’s Darnell Gardner Jr penned this tribute to the holiday.This Thursday, my family (minus one) will celebrate one of the US’ biggest holidays — Thanksgiving. For me, more than anything, Thanksgiving is about warmth.It’s about the warm feelings that are stirred up in your spirit when you see your extended family. It’s about the warmth of the holiday season, which serves as a buffer against the bitter cold weather that envelopes much of the US this time of year. It’s about the warmth of the burning logs flickering in the fireplace, and the warmth of that first bite of Thanksgiving dinner.The holiday, which has similar equivalents in countries and cultures across the globe, has been celebrated since the early days of the American colonies. According to lore, the first settlers celebrated Thanksgiving after a successful fall harvest. The cornerstone of their celebration was a giant feast, a tradition that continues to this day.My mom prepares all of my favorite foods on Thanksgiving. The dinner table sits heavy under the weight of pans of moist turkey, gooey macaroni and cheese, savory dressing (similar to stuffing), tender candied yams, expertly spiced greens, and hot cornbread. She spends all day cooking the meal, and sometimes the preparations even begin the day before the holiday. It’s a lot of work, and it’s a lot of food, and each year I’m amazed at how she manages to put everything together.The first, most formal meal begins once all of the food is ready. Everyone sits around the table, a prayer is offered, our glasses are filled with wine, and we dig in. While we eat, we go around the table and take turns saying what we’re thankful for this year. Talking is quite a challenge when your mouth is full of delicious food.Once everyone has eaten their first meal, seconds, thirds and even fourths are offered on a first-come-first-served basis.After we finish eating at our home, believe it or not, we sometimes go to my aunt’s house to continue eating and meeting with family. Football is another key element of Thanksgiving, and my aunt’s family loves the sport. After eating, the family crowds around the television to watch football players throw around the old pigskin. Usually at this point I retire to the basement to gorge myself on videogames and sweets with the younger members of the family.By the end of the day, everyone is fat and happy. We’ve all eaten so much that we can hardly move. The smells of the holiday begin to fade, and our minds and hearts begin to set on Christmas, the next time we’ll have a chance to celebrate each other.
