Behind the worsening floods
If you’ve browsed your micro blog or WeChat friends circle in recent months, you’ve probably seen pictures of lands *submerged by flooding and *soggy commuters *trudging through knee- or even waist-deep water.One after another, cities in southern and central China have found themselves *inundated with heavy rainfall. But is the rain the sole factor to blame for the recent floods in more than 20 Chinese cities? Not necessarily so.Beyond their superficial causes, the floods can be traced back to climate change. Fan Shenggang, director general of the International Food Policy Research Institute, told The New York Times: “Climate *variability is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events such as droughts and floods.”El Nino, a warm-weather phase that occurs every three to six years, is just one of the elements *exacerbating climate change this year. This El Nino is the strongest since records collection began in 1951, and it resembles a 1998 weather pattern that flooded the Yangtze River and killed thousands, Liu Ning, vice-minister of water resources, told Xinhua News Agency.During El Nino, currents in the Pacific Ocean bring warm water to the surface and heat up the air. As a result, weather patterns across much of Asia and other regions around the Pacific have shifted.These unusual weather patterns may have contributed to the high levels of flooding, but they alone are not responsible for the damage those floods are causing. Poor city planning is also worsening the situation.When there are heavy rains, lakes are supposed to absorb and slowly expel water, according to Ke Zhiqiang of the environmental advocacy group Green City of Rivers. However, in Wuhan, one of the worst-hit areas, many lakes were filled in for property development. The Beijing News reported that in the six decades after 1949, the number of lakes in Wuhan has shrunk from 127 to 38.Many experts propose building “sponge cities” – which come equipped with *drainage systems that imitate what lakes would do – as a solution to flooding. Featuring large green areas, rooftop gardens and *permeable roads, “sponge cities” would be able to capture and reuse rainwater.The creation of these “sponge cities” is expected to help combat extreme weather in the future. Eighty percent of urban areas in China will have to meet “sponge-city” standards by 2030, the State Council said in a government document last October.
