Strong support on graduates to run online shops
Out of his own interest, a fresh graduate named Li Xiaohui runs a video game shop on taobao.com. And fully occupied with his job, his parents help him manage the store."I didn’t think too much of starting my own business from this shop. But it operates well and earns me 2,000 ($303) to 3,000 yuan ($454) a month at the most," Li said.On account of the difficulty in finding a satisfactory job, many college students are willing to start online shops to get over such period. A survey launched by social survey center of China Youth Daily indicates that 66.9 percent of the interviewees encourage graduates to keep online stores as starting enterprises, while 12.3 percent, disagree.A low starting lineDue to the lack of funds, Ning Meng, a student in Jilin University chose to be a clothing surrogate."We send orders to manufacturers and they will deliver clothes to purchasers. We can get the margin in between," Ning said."Opening such a shop needs funds, and there is always hidden dangers behind it. If other store keepers place a substantial order, they will have a lower offer. Then it will leave me a small profit," Ning added.Have an advantageA college student in Shanghai named Liu Heng is a master of online shopping. He thinks that university students have unparalleled advantage in managing such businesses – network resource and abundant time."I learned a lot about business in KAB entrepreneur courses," Liu said. "Brain storm and search engine will help you solve most of the problems in starting your own business." "College students have much on-line shopping experience, so they are aware of what their peers need. That’s the advantage they have," Lu Jing, a member in KAB entrepreneur club in Southwestern University of Finance and Economics told reporters.Lack of timeYan Jingjing, a junior in Beijing Forestry University (BFU) describes her career as "agony". Yan used to have an online accessory shop, which is popular among buyers. But numerous curriculums pushed her to deal with the business at night every day. Finally she shut down the shop for lack of time.The investigation displays that 69.7 percent of the graduates surveyed believe they underestimate the difficulty of running a shop; 57.8 percent think lack of experience would lead them to legal prosecution; 53.3 percent feel it would delay studying and 48.3 percent fear losing confidence in anything else if they fail once.
