Girls are the bosses
Yang Jianxiong, 20, a junior majoring in vegetation conservation, is amazed to see so many female freshmen in his department. Once the domain of boys, the department at Huazhong Agricultural University this year for the first time admitted more female than male students.“I am surprised to see so many girls in a traditional boys’ department,” said Yang.A gender imbalance on campus caused by female students outperforming their male counterparts reflects a global trend. Experts, however, say that social structures and bias will continue to prevent women from gaining a better rank in society.Qian Wei, an official in the dean’s office at Nanchang University, said that female dominance in gaining scholarships has been notable for years.“The general impression is that female students study better than male students,” said Qian. “Quite a number of departments give eight out of 10 scholarships to female students.”Gu Haibing, professor in the School of Economics at Renmin University of China, attributes this to the education system and college admission mechanism.“From their fundamental education through to college, girls gain the edge with their better discipline and memory-based studying methods,” said Gu. “Girls also do better under an exam-based college admission system.”Jin Yihong, professor at Nanjing Normal University, says the education system is not the decisive factor. “It is a global trend that women are outperforming men, under all kinds of education systems,” said Jin.Jin also said that women have better communication skills. “When an economy and society emphasizes information and communication, rather than labor, women have the edge.”This notion is echoed by Hanna Rosin in The New York Times. Rosin, author of the book The End of Men, believes that the greater adaptability of women to a changing economy is the key to their success.Despite this, Feng Xiaotian, professor of sociology at Nanjing University, said that female students with better grades don’t necessarily go on to a better career or social status after graduation.“Gender discrimination against females in job hunting and promotion is a glass ceiling that turns academic performance into nothing,” said Feng.The gender imbalance has even changed admission procedures at some colleges. This year, China University of Political Science and Law had an admission score of 588 for men - 44 points below that for women. It caused a public outcry.A Wuhan-based college admission official, who asked to remain anonymous, confessed that many schools set higher benchmarks for female students due to the pressure of job hunting.“Graduate employment rates are vital for the school to retain its reputation and attract students,” he said.Professor Feng says that despite their success, women have yet to change the current “men-oriented” social order.“With this bias and other barriers for women out there, women are restricted,” said Feng. “In the end, it is a social issue that we have to deal with.”Even so, male students have to deal with female domination at least throughout campus life.Li Kunning, 18, from Chongqing University, is the only male class leader among seven others in his class. But he said it’s an all too familiar scenario.“It’s always like this, from primary school through to senior high school,” Li said. “Girls are always the bosses.”
