Sealed with a signature
More young urban couples are going in for prenuptial agreements detailing the rules of conduct for almost every aspect of married life. Luo Zheng (not her real name), 28, an office worker in Changsha, Hunan province, still pines for her former fianc, but does not regret the actions that led to their split. Li Gen (not his real name), 31, and Luo met in 2007, and decided to register as man and wife on Dec 18 last year. That morning, Luo gave several papers to Li, saying it was their prenuptial marital agreement. It read: "If the husband has an extra-marital affair, he has to pay 200,000 yuan ($29,300) to the wife." That was not all. It went on: "If the husband’s mobile phone is not in service, he should report to the wife immediately and apologize; if the husband does not come home for one night, he should pay 1,000 yuan ($147) to the wife; in case of a quarrel, the husband should always be the one to apologize." Li was not amused. He walked out and several days later, sent Luo a short message. "There is no meaning in getting married if we do not trust each other," he wrote.Pre-nuptial agreements are intended to help determine how commonly held assets, as well as childcare responsibilities, will be shared in the event of a divorce. They usually stand up to the scrutiny of the relevant laws, except for those containing bizarre provisions.For example, a wife who demanded that she have access to the short messages the husband sent to all his female friends, was said to have violated his civil rights and hence deemed illegal.Government officer Yang Mi, 28, was luckier than Luo. Before getting married in 2008, she and her husband drew up a premarital agreement which stated that her husband would cook while she washed the dishes, and that she would clean the apartment while he ironed the clothes. Yang’s husband earns about 20,000 yuan ($2,930) every month, but the agreement stated that he would give it all to Yang, who would then hand over 5,000 yuan for his monthly expenses. The agreement drew no protest from Yang’s husband who saw his compliance with it as a way to express his love. "It can avoid trouble after marriage. Besides, the couple will love each other more, as they know what their duties are," Yang says, and suggests that all women sign such agreements before they get married. China Daily conducted a small survey of 20 couples under 30 in the city, among whom 16 had drawn up prenuptial agreements. They lay down the rules for almost every aspect of married life - from how to behave in front of others, and treat one another’s parents, to who controls the finances in the family. In all 16 cases, it was the wife who initiated the agreement. While most of the husbands felt it was not necessary, they saw no harm in going along. 
