Dangerous Beauty: 5 Scariest Beauty Products
Chemicals, heavy metals, bacteria, and other hazardous ingredients are turning up in makeup, skin creams, and hair styling products. Here, the latest and most dangerous beauty alerts, and how to protect yourself without compromising your beauty routine.Mercury in Skin Creams?That was the headline-grabber last week, when an FDA investigation found imported skin creams may contain toxic levels of mercury and other heavy metals. The risk is serious; people are actually getting sick from mercury contamination from these products. The creams are intended primarily for “skin lightening” and anti-aging.Symptoms of mercury poisoning include tremors, memory problems, irritability, and changes in vision or hearing. The creams have turned up in seven states so far, and several cases of serious mercury poisoning have been reported.Lead in Lipstick?Once considered an “urban legend,” the rumor that some lipsticks contain lead turned out to be deadly true when the FDA tested hundreds of lipsticks following an alert issued by the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics.The brands that tested positive for lead levels included well-respected national brands including L’Oreal, Revlon, Avon, and Cover Girl. And high-end brands like Dior and M.A.C. weren’t exempt either. Five of the ten most contaminated lipsticks were manufactured by L’Oreal USA.Bacteria in Mascara?Yes, this can happen too, but it’s the result of keeping mascara too long. The microbes don’t arrive in the mascara itself. According to a study in Optometry, bacteria that are naturally present in the eyes can be transferred into mascara via the wand. When the researchers tested mascaras, microbes were present in 33 percent of the products tested.Formaldehyde in Hair StraightenersDespite label claims of being “formaldehyde-free”, many keratin-based hair straighteners, when tested, were found to contain formaldehyde, a known carcinogen. The levels of formaldehyde found were fairly low, and shouldn’t pose a hazard if you’re only straightening your hair a few times a year, but more often than that isn’t a great idea. And stylists, who use the products on their customers regularly, are at risk.Mineral MakeupOften considered a natural alternative to makeup, mineral-based products often come in the form of powders. The problem results because the particles of minerals such as mica are so small, they float through the air and can be inhaled into the lungs. (Consider this: When construction workers use spackle and other products containing mica, they wear masks to avoid breathing them in.) There hasn’t been any warning issued for mineral makeup yet, but some experts, such as pulmonologists, are warning women that lung damage could result from frequent use.
