Top 10 ways to say love
There is only one terminal for lovebirds who want to be with each other for a lifetime, but there are many ways to drive toward the terminal.1. Swimming pool weddingBride Tang Mei and groom Wu Chunpeng first met at a swimming pool in the Natatorium of Nanjing Olympic Sports Center. What’s romantic about their love story is that their wedding ceremony was held in the place where the couple first met.As both are from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), they chose to tie the knot on China’s Army Day, Aug 1, 2010. After a simple wedding ceremony on the 10-meter platform, the couple exchanged rings in the water. 2. Wedding on iceChina’s first Olympic champion figure skaters Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo held an on-ice ceremony in the Capital Gymnasium on Sept 4, 2010.The pair skated in wedding outfits as they enjoyed their long-delayed wedding party.3. Bus weddingTang Li is a bus driver in Wuchang, Hubei province, and Nov 13 was a big day for her. She boarded her bus in the morning as usual, but on this day, she was wearing a wedding gown. Tang Li was going to drive her bus to the wedding ceremony with her soon-to-be husband, Ma Jun.4. Hospital ward weddingLou Bin had been dreaming of holding his lovely fiancee’s hands and walking down the aisle for many times. Unfortunately he was diagnosed with leukemia before their wedding and had to wait for a bone marrow transplant in Wuhan No 5 Hospital in Central China’s Hubei province.Naturally he was depressed, and even desperate. But his 27-year-old fiancée Guo Qian decided to move their wedding ceremony to the ward. The couple said "I do" in the hospital ward on July 19, 2010.5. Submarine weddingHundreds attended a submarine wedding held in Qingdao Underwater World on Oct 10.Actors performed Mermaid and Prince on the theater stage at 9 pm. The "mermaid” bride and the “prince” groom walked onto the stage hand-in-hand.The shell in front of them opened and released the wedding ring during the vows, delivering the wishes of the ocean. The new couple exchanged wedding rings in front of their audience of visitors and sea creatures.（To be continued.）
