Perfect season to dress up
Every young woman loves dresses, especially in hot summers. From summery to chic, and sexy to dreamy, your wardrobe must have dresses for every occasion. So it’s important to know the latest trends to update your wardrobe.Here, we introduce a few popular dress styles this season. Why not take inspiration from them and then head out to do your shopping?Maxi dressAfter a huge development in 2012, the maxi dress is still a popular style to give you a feminine, light and exciting look in the summer. It elongates a woman’s figure, whether it reaches to the ground or just above the ankle.Versatility and flexibility are its two advantages. You can add many accessories, like chunky belts, large fedora hats and a cluster of bangles, to create various outfits. As English fashion website femalefirst.co.uk says, it is an easy style to pull of and looks perfect with sandals during the day, while wedges work well in the evening.Pleated skirtAs you may have heard, pleats are a major trend this season. And there is no easier way to tackle the trend than with a pleated skirt. As a classic combination, it gives structure and affirmation to the waist, especially in a skirt made of heavy material. From the old-fashioned accordion pleated skirt to the box pleated skirt, pleats transform a regular skirt into something better. To keep this style from looking too retro, choose a skirt with a hemline that reaches below the knee.Full midi dressPioneered by American brand Tibi and championed by Atlantic Pacific blogger Blaire Eadie, the full midi lends an air of ladylike elegance to any ensemble. This season, it’s a good choice to pair it with a crop for a bit of edge, or play up its feminine vibe with a floral print top. The traditional style with a dramatic seam near the waist creates a slimming feature. If you want to wow old friends at a wedding or dinner party, or even get a little fancy for your date, the full midi is perfect.MiniskirtsOnce again, miniskirts are on the rise. The A-line mini, as a major component of Louis Vuitton’s F/W 14 collection, is already gaining traction thanks to its universally flattering silhouette. Also, suit sets, piping and front pockets serve as an update to a retro-inclined style. Leather and some embellishments are used as alternative material options as well. All in all, put on a miniskirt to show off your slim legs.
