Lee Kaifu: disasters also help
YOUNG Chinese follow Kaifu Lee’s every move. His recent decision to leave Google and start Innovation Works Incubator just put him in the news again.Apart from being a leader, he’s also known as a caring teacher and patient friend. He’s concerned about young people’s growth and he doesn’t mind going out of his way to help them succeed. Last week, 21st Century sat down for an exclusive interview with Lee in Beijing.21st: You inspire many college students and they want to have a go at their own business. What kind of advice do you have for these students? Can just anyone start their own company?Li: First of all, you need some basic elements - including a golden idea, a starting fund, a market, and a team to work with you. And you need a sense of responsibility.If a youngster has zero experience but wants to get some investment for a high-tech company, then I’m not so positive. Few tech geniuses can start a company like Baidu or Tencent, overnight and make money incredibly quick. Bill Gates is different because he got some early experience.Instead, I see lots of opportunities in the service industry in this country, including hotels, clothing, education and catering. There’s strong domestic market demand. If you set up a company in these areas, there’s a lot of room to grow. And it’s more feasible for young people without any experience. You can see many successful models, including Yu Minhong.21st: Have you ever encountered frustrations or difficulties in your life? If so, what? And how did you overcome them?Li: I’ve stumbled many times, in everything from designing an Internet browser to making a public speech. My lawsuit with Microsoft really got me in hot water. For a while, I felt that life was unfair and wished that this terrible thing had never ever happened. I wished I could erase that memory, if possible. But gradually my way of thinking changed. First, I learned that, when you lose all rights to choose, in reality you can still choose your own  attitude. Instead of giving up, I worked 18 hours a day to collect evidence, to see what could be changed, and saved time by recognizing what couldn’t be done.Second, I began to see who my pals and foes were. I’ve seen people who stand up for me with courage and I’ve discovered some with a hidden side. So I shouldn’t waste my time on them.Third, I discovered how to deal with stress and not get beaten down. All this became my wealth for my future work at Google and now at the new company. So I have to say thanks for this disastrous experience. This is the attitude that everyone should adopt towards their frustrations.21st: How can students perform better during job interviews?Li: I’ve recently had some face-to-face interviews with job applicants for my new company. To my surprise, they showed huge differences as individuals. This is hard to see just by looking at a resume or written test. To be honest, some grads, even those from top universities, are bookworms and are a bit out of tune with reality.The wise thing is to intern early while in college. Keep your eyes open for opportunities. Send your resume to companies with good reputations. If you don’t get anything there, try medium or small-sized companies. And if this still doesn’t work out, why not start your own website with a group of students? Work on easy-to-handle or feasible projects. Getting your hands dirty with real work can make you a totally different person.21st: Many of our readers struggle to choose between domestic and foreign companies. Could you give them some advice?Li: I have to say that Chinese enterprises are rising very quickly now, but they have a long way to go. The two types of companies have very different working styles and cultures. Instead of thinking only about pay and stability, you have to compare them in all possible ways. Then decide which better suits your values and your personality.21st: Is a master’s or PhD a "must"? What’s a degree’s weight in the present job market?Li: It depends on your specific situation, including your major and your career goals. To work in some areas, further academic training is required, so a degree will prove to be of great value. But in other areas, there’s no such requirement, and practical experience counts more. So, first, you have to analyze the prospects in your field to decide if you want to invest in a higher degree. 21st: Could you give some career advice to our 21st Century readers?Li: When it comes to work, you need to adopt a very down-to-earth attitude, and you can’t just pursue fancy or impulsive ideas. A lot of factors have to be taken into consideration when looking for a job - for instance, the chance to learn, or the chance to display your aptitude. Making money is certainly one of them. But, after all, the most important thing is to follow your heart and pursue what you really want to do. Even your parents will be happier if you can engage with something that genuinely interests you.
