The big freeze
If you logged on to weibo over the weekend, chances are your newsfeed was flooded with videos of US celebrities drenching themselves in ice water. It seems everyone is getting in on the fun, from popular singers like Taylor Swift and Justin Timberlake, to high-ranking of tech executives including Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg.Is it some kind of new, cool way to cope with the summer heat? Of course not.It’s a fundraising game called the Ice Bucket Challenge, and it aims to raise awareness for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).The challenge’s premise is straightforward. It involves daring a person to dump a bucket of ice water over their head within 24 hours, or donate money toward fighting ALS. Even if a person completes the challenge, they’re more than welcome to donate money anyhow.Once a person completes the challenge, they’re supposed to issue the same challenge to several other people, usually three, which is why the challenge has been growing and growing.Buckets of moneySince the beginning of June, the game has spread across social media timelines and late-night talk shows in the US. According to Facebook, more than 15 million people so far have posted, commented, or liked a post about the challenge. It has raised more than $2.3 million (14 million yuan) to support research for the illness.As for the origins of the craze, new data from the Facebook data science team heavily supports one theory: that the ice bucket challenge originated with Pete Frates, a former captain of the Boston College baseball team. Frates, 29, who was diagnosed with ALS in 2012, can no longer speak and uses a wheelchair. After Frates posted his own ice bucket challenge video on July 31, the game took off and has now become one of the biggest stunts in the online community.Seeing celebrities take on the ice bucket challenge is entertaining, but it’s even better watching them do it with a twist. Here are three celebrities who got creative.Jess Tyler FergusonThe Modern Family star, who accepted the challenge from US actress Elizabeth Banks, made like he was going to dump the water on his head, but instead dropped his check book, saying “What do I write it out to?” He challenged everyone, including Oprah Winfrey, to join in.Bill Gates“I’m always up for a challenge,” the founder of Microsoft said in his highly-produced challenge video while drawing sketches for an ice-bucket-dump lever. He accepted the challenge from the Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and challenged Ryan Seacrest, Chris Anderson and Elon Musk.Chris PrattWhy dump ice water when you can drink ice? The Guardians of the Galaxy star drank an appropriately-named alcoholic beverage before getting — surprise — ice water dumped “down his butt crack”, as he said. He accepted the challenge from Bob Iger, current CEO of The Walt Disney Company, and challenged three of his co-stars.
