Enjoy Sun in Safety
The dog days of summer are here. While soaking up the sunshine is a must, exposing our skin to ultraviolet (UV) radiation poses some serious health hazards. This is where sunscreen comes in handy to protect our skin.However, different scenarios call for different types of sunscreen. Here, let’s take a look at the choices available to let you enjoy a vibrant and healthy summer in the sun.Day of commuting and indoor funScenario: You’re headed to the office or school, or are engaging in indoor activities that require little time in the sun.SPF (Sun Protection Factor) requirement: 15 or lessSolution: Even a two-hour shopping spree in a brightly lit indoor mall is equivalent to spending about an hour in the sun, because fluorescent light bulbs also emit UV rays.A moisturizer, sunblock or foundation with an SPF is the perfect choice. Many have an SPF of no more than 15, which is usually sufficient to avoid damaging UV rays. But if you’re still worried about the protection effect, you can also double up. Use a moisturizer or a BB cream, and then top it off with an SPF 15 sunscreen.Season for traveling and outingsScenario: Exploring a city on foot is the best way to absorb the local culture. But strolling around also takes time and exposes your skin to UV rays.SPF requirement: 30 or lessSolution: Wearing a hat and long-sleeved clothes is sensible, but putting on a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 30 is the ultimate protection, especially during the peak hours for sunrays between 10 am and 4 pm. However, sunscreen often degrades fast when exposed to the sun for more than an hour, so make sure you reapply it at least every 90 minutes.Keep fit and healthyScenario: Many of us choose the summer to get rid of extra weight for a slimmer figure. But working up a sweat in the sun can compromise the protection offered by sunscreen.SPF requirement: 45 or moreSolution: Sunscreen with SPF of 45 and a water-resistant formula is strongly recommended. You can also look specifically for sunscreens made for athletes, such as a non-greasy spray that is not only convenient to carry with you, but also dries quickly so that it won’t run into your eyes. However, a water-resistant sunscreen cannot maintain its SPF very long when you are sweating, so you had better reapply it every 40 minutes.Sunbathing on the beachScenario: Sunbathing gives us a healthy tan, but overexposure to the sun’s rays can do more harm than good to our skin.SPF requirement: 50 or moreSolution: Keep in mind that you need the strongest sun protection you can get. Look for a thick sunscreen with an SPF of at least 50 that offers broad-spectrum protection. Or better still, a waterproof one that will give you longer-lasting protection. Don’t forget to reapply it every 60 minutes, or whenever you sweat or get wet.
