Remembering an icon
This may be one of the few occasions where death doesn’t seem to be such a horrible thing. Yang Jiang (1911-2016), a renowned Chinese author and translator, passed away on May 25 in Beijing at the age of 104. It is a great loss for Chinese literature. But for her, it’s probably like going home.After losing her daughter Qian Yuan in 1997 and her husband–the acclaimed writer and poet Qian Zhongshu – in 1998, Yang described the toll death has taken on her life.“We three have scattered, leaving only me behind to clean up the scene,” Yang wrote in her book We Three (《我们仨》), which was published in 2004. “I am alone, missing us three.”The spouse of an influential scholar like Qian Zhongshu, who wrote the masterpiece Fortress Besieged (《围城》), could have easily been overshadowed. But Yang was not. Even Qian himself described her as “the most chaste wife as well as the most talented girl” in China, a place where it was once believed to be impossible for a woman to be both a wife and a gifted scholar.One of Yang’s best-known novels is 1998’s Baptism (《洗澡》). With “her patent style of irony and wit”, Yang described how Chinese intellectuals adjusted to the new social order brought by the “cultural revolution” (1966-76), commented David Der-wei Wang, a professor of Chinese literature at Harvard University. “Even when political fervor and human cruelty is being observed, Yang Jiang never loses her sense of humor and compassion,” he said in a blurb for her book.Yang was also a devoted translator. Having studied in Britain and France, she was fluent both in English and French. But after deeming several English and French translations of the Spanish classic Don Quixote unsuitable, she started learning Spanish from scratch at the age of 47, and became the first person to translate Don Quixote into Chinese.“Her translation of Don Quixote is one of my favorite novels. I was surprised that, smart as she is, she set out to translate a novel full of silliness and absurdities. I think she has a pristine and innocent heart in disguise. I worship Qian Zhongshu, but I like Yang Jiang,” Chinese writer Fang Xiangdong said.Since Yang is now “reunited” with her loved ones, her passing was bittersweet for fans. “You are no longer alone. It’s time for us to miss you three now,” one internet user wrote on Sina Weibo.
