Flash fashion update
This spring’s fashion weeks may have come to an end, but the pursuit of fashion never stops, especially in this lovely season. It’s time to put aside your chunky coats and update your wardrobe with some fresh pieces.But first, let’s get to know the hottest new trends and styles. Here, we pick a few for you to experiment with.Sporty looks winFrom tennis whites to varsity bomber jackets, the athletic style is being embraced by many designers this season. The spring/summer collection of Italian fashion powerhouse Prada features many dresses with sporty details like leg warmers and ribbed knitwear. Also, Gucci creative director Frida Giannini is offering athletic items like basketball shorts and tracksuits.Sporty clothes are flexible, flattering, and comfy. With luxury fabrics, like silk organza or washed satin, and high-tech sporty textiles, you will be sporting all-star styles in no time.Release your inner animalTextures like crocodile skin or snakeskin never really go out of style. But this spring, they seem to be popping up in bright spring colors, especially in fashion accessories.Reptile skin is eye-catching and makes a fine focal point. It accents solid colors splendidly, mixes well with other patterns, and looks current and hip in neutrals or brights. It is versatile, as snake prints can be preppy or bohemian, classic or trendy.Playful pattern printsIn addition to familiar animal prints, this spring sees all kinds of patterns like waterproof prints, big florals, and doodles. They all act as neutrals and are easy to wear in mix and match outfits.As for patterns, endless variations of geometrics, such as checks, dots, tiles, squares, stripes and diamonds, can be used for mixing. They range from classic patterns found in old-school knit cardigans to wild digital prints.Back to bohemiaThe great bohemian embroidery of the 1960s is enjoying a revival this season. There are many items of clothing that can be embroidered, including tops, dresses, bags and belts. The colors and textures of embroidered fabrics are much richer than most prints.For those who want a “hippie look”, Mexican-folk embroidery patterns are perfect. This type of folkloric decoration usually incorporates florals or swirls that form a symmetrical pattern. But the modern designs with standard embroidery patterns have a different feel than the traditional ones.
