All about Fan Meizhong
To his mother and sister, Fan Meizhong is a man with a heart full of love.His 70-year-old- mother, who lives in Longchuang now, said "He studied really hard as a kid. When I got up to make breakfast I would find him up and studying. He’d risen at 4 AM. It was very rare that he would get up late." Mother and sister say Fan grew up poor. He had a difficult childhood. "Sometimes, Dad would hit Mom when he was drunk. No one challenged Dad but Fan. He would stand up to his father, an invalid who couldn’t work,and say: "Mom works really hard: You should do your best to help her." Their father died of his condition three years ago.Li Yulong, a former colleague of Fan’s at Teacher’s Friend magazine commented, "He is interested in literature and education. I’m not qualified to comment on his views on literature, but I think he has some very good ideas about education. During his years as a teacher and as an editor for an educational journal he’s done some valuable intellectual work"Li said that after the blog issue he and Fan discussed whether a teacher should run away from a disaster. But both of them concluded that a teacher should make higher demands of him- or herself. "We asked ourselves whether, if his students had been junior school level or even younger, he would have run away so quickly. He replied that he "wasn’t sure"."I wrote it because I wanted no-one to forget."China News Week: as a result of the article you posted on your blog, you’re famous now. Did you expect the fame?The article caused an earthquake. I didn’t expect anything of that power. I thought it would have just a little effect, maybe 1 or 2 in magnitude. What I got was something way up the scale. It was so powerful it makes me dizzy."China News Week: What was your intention when you wrote the article? After I’d finished it I thought of something Cao Cao said on killingBo Chi and his family: "Better to wrong the world than have it wrong me!"Fan: But it’s different from Cao. The article expresses my values. It’s clear I am opposed to the majority of community feeling in China.. A friend asked me: "Do you want to overturn traditional values because you are a coward?’  But it’s not like that. My ideas have matured over the years. I wasn’t just talking off the top of my head.  As my students know,  I think that not everyone has to act like Dong Cunrui and Huang Jiguang. However, during the time buildings were being earthquake-proofed, there was a big rise in community spirit. I was conflicted then, since I’m a person who likes to go to extremes to make my point.It’s a little like it was with Lu Xun. Although he was against the extreme filial duty emphasized by tradition, in real life he was a filial person. I am too. What I hate are those who speak nobly, but don’t back up words with actions. I’m quite the opposite to that kind of person. When I do something I do it anonymously.I’m a sensitive manChina News Week: Many regard both your behavior and articles as cold-blooded.Fan: I have my weaknesses; my love has its limits. There are things I don’t say; that doesn’t mean I don’t have emotions. I planned to write an article about the whole experience. The blog issue has delayed all that.The article was to have been in three parts. In the first part I would have reflected upon the disaster, including the issues of poor building construction, the disaster relief, and the difficulties of the survivors, for example, whether or not people can live in Beichuan today. The second would have consisted of more personal reflections, such as my own behavior at the time of the earthquake. The third would have been on the changes brought by the quake to me and other people in the disaster areas. I still remember the moment the ground began shaking. My first thought was, "What can I hold onto?" The experience gave me a real insight into the contingency of human life: What if I had been in Juyuan Middle School? Then there would have been some more general reflections: Are worldly things worth pursuing? Are the petty grievances we suffer all that important? Do we love our family members enough? How can we make the people around us happier? (Fan lowered his head and wept.)I’m a sensitive man, but as history is my discipline, I know that I should try to be objective. Im planning to write an article on the whole blog issue. Before the disaster, I thought I was a brave man. The earthquake made me realize the truth.  I put myself first, like many people.  I tell reporters, "I’d have loved to have saved everyone, but I know I didn’t have the power. It’s not that I didn’t want to.China News Week: Apart from the tragedy of it all, is there anything positive you can take away from all of this?Fan: Writing that blog helped me record a rare, uncommon experience. I was able to explain it to my students and comfort my friends.The real point of the article was to oppose hypocrisy and to advocate the importance of being able to be honest without fear of criticism. I’d had the idea in my mind for a long time and I finally put it in that article.To some degree it has had an effect. Our culture is deep-rooted, it dates back thousands of years. One article cannot change all that. I hope at least that I have made people think about it.
