Celebrating in new ways
Some young people have become disillusioned with how commercialized Christmas has become.As a result, they try to break with established traditions. What do they do to get more out of Christmas?Ways of celebratingSome folk kill two birds with one stone: by booking a short holiday abroad they can escape miserable winter weather and the strained atmosphere of a family Christmas with the relatives.Ok, so flying to warm and exotic climes is great for people who live in cold winter climates.But how do you celebrate Christmas when your year-round climate is warm, or even tropical?For instance, in California, where suntans and palm trees replace traditional Christmas images of snow and sleighs, there are some Christmas traditions which may seem unusual to those used to more traditional images.In Santa Cruz, California, Santa Claus arrives on a surfboard, wearing a red wetsuit. As long as he comes bearing presents, Surfing Santa would probably be welcome anywhere.In Australia, many young people enjoy the warm weather with a beach barbecue and cold beer. In recent years, Bondi Beach has become a magnet for overseas visitors to gather and celebrate. It’s not uncommon for numbers to reach 40,000 on Christmas day.In cooler climes, many young people simply see Christmas as a time to escape their immediate families and celebrate with friends.Large amounts of alcohol are usually involved. Parents are not.Gift givingWe all know the feeling: you receive the kind of gift that you wouldn’t choose for yourself in a million years. But you have to grin and bear it pretending that you love your new present.To avoid inflicting this experience on others, many people give gift vouchers at Christmas.They simply go to a big store that they know the gift recipient likes, and buy them a voucher for the store.With this the recipient can buy whatever they like and everyone is spared embarrassment.Get switched on this XmasThe new generation is trendy and tech savvy. As a result, digital and electronic gadgets feature highly on many young people’s Christmas wish lists. Not surprisingly, then, the Guardian’s top five Christmas gifts for modern young people in 2010 are:1. Apple’s iPad: The iPad is probably one of the hottest items of 2010. No matter how you look at it, almost everybody wants one.2. Microsoft’s Xbox Kinnect: Microsoft’s latest games consol puts you firmly in control. You’ll soon be acting out the games right in your home!3. Digital Cameras: Christmas is the perfect time to give this gift that can help you to capture those special seasonal memories in crystal clear images. Digital cameras are not as expensive as they used to be, either. You can snap up a bargain for as little as $100 (665 yuan).4. New Apple iPod Touch: What Christmas wish list would be complete without an iPod? If an iPad seems beyond your reach, then Apple’s latest Touch is the next best thing! 5. The ZiiSound D5 wireless stereo system: There is nothing more soothing or satisfying than listening to your favorite music on a great sound system. Besides its elegant looks, the ZiiSound D5 is wireless and works with most types of media player.
