Five ways to spend a happy Spring Festival
No.1 choice: ski!Where to go: Beijing National Stadium (Bird’s Nest)Activity: the 2nd Bird Nest Snow SeasonIn winter, the Bird’s Nest becomes a white world. The 2nd Bird Nest Snow Season has already started. During the Chinese New Year holiday, visitors can see a different Bird’s Nest. The various snow sports will offer you a dynamic Spring Festival holiday.There are 16 entertainments in the main venue and outfield to meet the requirements of visitors of different ages and tastes. Compared to last year, this year’s event has the new skating zone and Snow Dodgem. Covering a big area of 1150 square meters, the Snow Cartoon Castle takes visitors to enter to a fabulous world.No.2 choice: experiencing strong Chinese New Year flavorWhere to go: Wuzhen, Jiaxing, Zhejiang ProvinceActivity: long street banquetDuring the Spring Festival, the streets in Wuzhen are illuminated for the celebration. People put up posters on their doors and walls. Many customs of the lunar New Year holidays are inherited in the town. The most distinctive one is the "long street banquet". In the past, wealthy families would hold banquets for guests in the Spring Festival. The neighbors set out tables and chairs along the street. The connected tables formed the lively and colorful "long street banquet".Today, the "long street banquet" is still held in Wuzhen town with more splendid dishes. The most indispensable one is the well-known braised sheep. It is a usual practice to put up a pot and boil sheep meat. The scent penetrates the whole street. Visitors are strongly advised to taste this gourmet.Other activities in the town: worshipping the kitchen god (Dec.23 on the lunar new year); pasting spring couplets, setting off fireworks and holding the reunion dinner (on the eve of the lunar new year); burning the first incense, watching traditional Chinese opera, enjoying festive lanterns, attending the temple fair and the lantern festival in January.No.3 choice: trip of minority flavorWhere to go: TibetThe Tibet in winter is actually not cold with temperatures of 18 C in the daytime. The climate in Shannan is much like the autumn in Jiangnan (south of Yangtze River).The Nyingchi in southeastern Tibet is always praised as Jiangnan in the plateau. When there, do not miss the gorgeous valley of Yarlungzangbo River, the villages hidden in the valley and alpine pastures.In winter, Lhasa is less crowded. Visitors can tour the Potala Palace and the Jokhang Temple at a leisurely pace. December to March is the best season to see the awe-inspiring sight of Mount Qomolangma. A must-see attraction is the flag cloud floating above the peak, where visitors can see it in the mountain camp.No.4 choice: family tourWhere to go: Disneyland, Hong KongHong Kong Disneyland is an ideal choice for a family tour especially with children. At the age of five, the Disneyland will formally start the grand ceremony "Leaping Wonders" (Feiyue Qimiao). The Disney Flying Cruise which has never been seen before, will appear.香港的迪斯尼乐园是家庭旅游，尤其是有孩子家庭的绝佳选择。香港迪斯尼五周年正式启动了题为“飞跃奇妙”的大型庆典，前所未有的“迪斯尼飞天巡游”将隆重登场。No.5 choice: express rail travelWhere to go: Wuguang (Wuhan - Guangzhou) Express RailThe Wuguang (Wuhan – Guangzhou) Express Rail connects Wuhan, Changsha and Guangzhou. It shortens the distance between the two ends into three hours and sixteen minutes. The best scenery along the journey is Hengshan Mountain (Hengyang, Hunan Province) where visitors can enjoy the snow sight, appreciate the Zhurong Peak and search for the mysterious Fangguang Temple.Delicacies along the way: Baoqing pork blood balls, Maojia braised pork, Hunan preserved fish, Wuhan hot dry noodles, Wuchang fish, Wuhan Doupi (a kind of snack made from sticky rice, beef, mushrooms and beans) and Jingwu duck neck.
