Clash of the superfans
During this summer vacation, battle lines have been drawn in the worlds of popular culture and politics, with tempers *flaring, insults flying and general hatred *spewing out all over the place – mostly onto smartphone and computer screens.There was the DC vs Marvel *debacle as web users hotly debated comic-book franchises. Old-school Ghostbusters fans spoke viciously from behind their keyboards about the new *reboot’s female stars. Kanye West and Kim Kardashian locked horns with Taylor Swift in a Twitter *feud involving song lyrics and Snapchat videos. And then there’s the US presidential race, which is more *akin to an online mud-slinging match than a bid to lead one of the world’s most powerful nations.“What I see right now is the whole world seems to be going to hell in a handbasket, and that’s creating a lot of tension and anger,” says Devin Faraci, editor-in-chief of US film site Birth.Movies.Death.People have long held strong views but didn’t always have the medium in which to express them, save for *venting to friends at dinner or telling all their problems to the poor woman behind the post office counter when dropping off mail. But the *anonymity, ease of use and instant worldwide audience of social media has changed all that.“I had a great-uncle who complained about everything, but we were the only ones who heard it,” says Robert Thompson, a professor of television and popular culture at Syracuse University, US. “Now everyone would hear about it.”The social media space has become free of age boundaries, which in turn has led to an *influx of *trolls, according to Faraci. A 14-year-old could be arguing with an adult on the internet, and the latter would never know it, even if the teenager’s profile picture was a Pokémon. Adults aren’t above getting into the *fray, either – just follow any celebrity’s Twitter account and you’re bound to come across a popcorn munching-worthy exchange sooner or later. “If celebrities and politicians – who aren’t so very different these days – are constantly taking the negative path, it can feel like the status quo, the way things are done, an acceptable way to act,” says Kate Erbland, film editor at Indiewire.com.So do we just all need to hug it out?“Eventually, people might become so sick of this that it becomes not cool, something people don’t respect in the marketplace of ideas and emotion,” says Thompson.Erbland suggests three things that may just help turn our collective online frown upside down: “Better movies, better discussion and maybe less time on social media.” But Faraci contends that if people just realized they were actually talking to other people when they interact with one another on social media, they might not be so hostile.“We’re not just talking to an *avatar or a statement,” he says. “We’re talking to a real human being who got up this morning, had breakfast, maybe something bad happened to them, maybe something good happened to them, but they’re living an actual life outside of their opinion.”
