Simple move for a fitter life
Last year, the plank exercise was still a new thing for most Chinese. Now, the exercise is so popular that not only do many people post photos of themselves doing it on social media, there was even a Plank World Cup, which was held for the first time in Beijing last month.The plank, also known as the front hold or hover, is a core strength exercise that involves suspending the body in a horizontal position with one’s forearms and toes. Its popularity in China can be partially attributed to real estate tycoon Pan Shiyi, according to Beijing Youth Daily. Last November, he posted a photo on Weibo, in which he performed the move with former US ambassador to China Gary Locke.The celebrity effect may have started the plank wave, but its popularity lies more in the exercise’s simplicity and benefits. Without any special equipment, it can be done anytime, anywhere. Plus, it’s the most effective and efficient way to exercise the abdominal muscles (abs).While performing the exercise, all of your abs, including the transverse, oblique and upper abs, must work together to stabilize and support your whole body. It also exercises what is known as your “core” muscles, including the hips and the upper back muscles that protect your spine, which gives you more stability and a better balance. Other muscle groups, including the gluteus, shoulders, lats, arms, and legs, are toned and tightened as well.A new record for the plank exercise was set at last month’s competition by US fitness enthusiast and retired marine soldier George Hood. His time was four hours and one minute.How long can you hold the position? Of course, the time isn’t all that counts. But, why not take a few minutes every day to work toward a better and healthier body?Although the plank is a simple exercise anyone can do without much instruction, there are a few details one should take note of to ensure *optimal performance. Here, we introduce the basic plank and some variations in a step-by-step guide.Basic plankLie face down on the floor, straighten your body, place your *elbows closely by the side of your chest with arms pointing forward.Raise your body using your toes and upper arms with your elbows ending up directly below your shoulders. Keep your forearms on the ground and a straight line from your shoulders to your feet.Hold this position for 10 seconds, then lower yourself down again. Gradually add more time.Ball plankBegin in a kneeling position with your upper legs and *torso sitting up tall and an exercise ball positioned in front of you.Hold the ball between your hands and elbows, extend your arms and lengthen your legs behind you at a 45-degree angle in plank position.Lift your knees off the ground. Only your toes should be touching the floor.Side plankBegin in the basic plank pose but shift your left forearm-, so that it is crossing your chest.Pivot onto the outer edge of your left foot and *stack your right foot directly on top with the ankle bones aligned.Place your right arm on your hip and balance with the shoulders, hips, knees and ankles parallel to each other. Keep your core and legs engaged.
