Interns, sometimes you just have to say 'No'
Student interns craving job experience and opportunities naturally want to impress their supervisors by having an assertive, can-do attitude. But they may realize later that they’re not ready to shoulder the responsibility that comes with their tasks. A startling example of interns who bit off more than they can chew was reported by a CCTV news program last week. Xiong Zhuowei, a professor of medicine at Peking University, died at the university’s First Hospital seven days after spinal surgery in 2006. CCTV reported that three doctors involved in the resuscitation were postgraduate students at Peking University. If this is true, their medical practice would be illegal. The hospital claims that the students had been licensed at that time, but the issuing of their certificates had been delayed.The report also revealed that another medical intern was found to be treating patients by himself. The hospital admitted that the student had given prescriptions without a doctor’s guidance. But the hospital insisted this is a case where an intern violated hospital regulations.This problem of interns shouldering too much responsibility isn’t limited to the medical field. Across many different industries, interns wanting to impress their supervisors and get a job offer sometimes say "yes" to assignments even if they have no idea how they will accomplish them.Saying "no", in their minds, is a sure way to ruin their already low chance of getting a job offer at the end of their internship. According to a ChinaHR.com survey, 90 percent of students consider internships "very important" to their future, but only 20 percent actually end up getting hired by a company at which they have interned.Chen Fuyun, a graduate from Tianjin University, worked as an intern in IBM’s technology department during his senior year last summer. After being told that only 60 percent of interns end up getting a job, he skipped the orientation portion of his internship and asked to be assigned to projects almost immediately.Know your limits"In the end, I encountered many problems I could not solve based on my textbook knowledge," Chen said. "To cover up [my weakness], I had to ask professors and seniors for help after work."Some interns will go even further to make a positive impression on their supervisor. Dong Wei, a 21-year-old senior at China Youth College for Political Sciences, once interned as an ad salesperson at China National Radio. He says the company ranks interns based on the sum of the ad revenue they manage to pull in each month. "To hit the target, some interns choose to bribe clients, or secretly offer commissions," Dong said, noting the obvious ethical concerns raised by such actions.Liu Yu, an HR manager at Sohu.com, says he understands young students’ eagerness to show their passion and ability. He adds, however, they "shouldn’t cross some lines". Many companies offer interns one- or two-week training sessions for this very reason, according to Liu. "If yours doesn’t, you should take the initiative to learn the limits and responsibilities of an intern by consulting your supervisor or talking to senior colleagues." For example, law, media and medical interns should first read national laws, including the Law on Lawyers, the regulations on journalism, and the Law on Medical Practitioners, which list what’s permissible.Li Kechao, a lawyer at the Zhuhai Shengchao Law Firm, says his office warns interns that missteps could cost them their careers. "Even if the plaintiff sues your employer instead of you, you still can’t get away, as the employer might sue you for losses you’ve caused," said Li.Critics say another way to protect interns is to improve the internship system. According to a recent report by 51job.com, 69 percent of HR managers admit they prefer not to write down clear intern responsibilities. Without a written agreement, warns Li, when an intern makes a mistake, the employer can more easily shift responsibility to the intern.
