Talk invades the airwaves
Several US presidents including Barack Obama bid farewell to talk show king David Letterman, 68, during his final episode of the “Late Show” last week by playfully announcing, “Our long, national nightmare is over.”Thousands of miles away, an audience in Beijing would later get a preview of the future of talk shows in China. Performing at the First Chinese Talk Show Art Festival on Thursday held in Beijing, comedian Xi Jiangyue, 33, sparked laughter in the audience. Not yet as prevalent as they are in some Western countries, talk shows in China are building a growing young audience who watch Chinese talk shows such as “The Dapeng Xiu”.The talk show TV programming format has existed in the US since the 1950s, and now it’s being adapted for Chinese audiences. But there are still core similarities that make a talk show a talk show no matter where it’s being presented.Team effortIn general, behind every talk show host’s comedic monologue is a team of busy creative writers.  Letterman’s monologues have earned the reputation of being the gold standard in the business. In the past 33 years, more than 90 writers churned out countless remarkable and thought-provoking jokes to fit Letterman’s comedy style, former “Late Show” head writer Steve O’Donnell told entertainment news website Vulture.“I really wanted the people writing this show to be so much funnier and so much smarter than I was,” Letterman told Vulture before his retirement. “I think that’s exactly the way you’ve got to run a show like this.”Musical vibeA talk show isn’t just about talking. Having an in-house band has been standard since Steve Allen’s “The Tonight Show” premiered half a century ago. The band opens the show, punctuates jokes with jolts of energetic instrumentation, and wraps the program up at the end of the night.“It’s a vital part of the format and adds so much energy, especially for the audience during the commercials,” US talk show host Jimmy Kimmel told showbiz magazine Variety. “We have such a versatile band they can play along with anything.”Special guestsFrom comedian Ellen DeGeneres’ love of playing games with the stars on her show, to Jon Stewart’s comedic celebrity interviews, how hosts interact with their special guests is an indispensable part of the talk show formula.Guest celebrities and politicians have been known to conduct talk show tours to promote their latest causes and conduct needed damage control after embarrassing public mistakes. For example, US actress Anne Hathaway (“Interstellar”, “The Dark Knight Rises”) has been invited to “The Daily Show” five times to discuss her career.Being a member of the studio audience is one of the best ways for someone to get an up-close look at their celebrity crush. But fans must plan in advance. While talk show tickets are normally free, the waitlist often extends six months into the future, according to about.com’s Thomas Tennant.
