Consequences of an Airport Kiss
Haisong Jiang, who slipped past a security checkpoint on Jan. 3, causing a shutdown of Newark Airport, pleaded guilty to defiant trespass. "At that moment, I’m very excited with my girlfriend, and I didn’t think too much," Mr. Jiang, 28, said Tuesday in his first interview since causing the six-hour shutdown at the airport and the five-day manhunt that followed. "I didn’t mean to cause trouble at the airport." On Tuesday, he pleaded guilty in Newark Municipal Court to the charge of defiant trespass, and besides the community service, he must pay a $500 fine and $158 in costs and fees. He addressed the acting chief judge, Richard E. A. Nunes, with a statement in Chinese that was translated by an interpreter. In an agreement between prosecutors and Mr. Jiang’s lawyer, Eric B. Bruce, Mr. Jiang will work off his punishment in community service. A native of China, he moved to the United States in 2004 to study and met his girlfriend about a year ago at Rutgers University. She has since moved to California. He said little about her except that she is also Chinese and 26, and that they were still very much an item. The lovebirds did the town over the Christmas holidays: shopping in SoHo, visiting the tree at Rockefeller Center, celebrating New Year’s Eve in Times Square - the works. On Jan. 3, he watched her pass through security, but he wanted to spend more time with her. When he noticed the officer leave his post, he saw his chance, he said. "I saw her at the exit," he said in nearly fluent English. "At that moment, I’m very excited for her. I didn’t realize the consequences." He slipped under the rope and kissed her and, arm in arm, walked her to her Continental Airlines gate and saw her onto the jetway. "And immediately I left," he said. There was no commotion in the terminal when he drove away to his home in Piscataway, he said.  Three days passed. "Friday, the police found me," he said. He was at the gym when his roommate called to say two police officers were at their home. Reality finally dawned on the budding scientist: "It’s not right to enter the airport. Immediately I know the police want to ask me this thing." They showed him a picture from the video and took him to a police station, where he told his story, he said. "I say, ’I just want to spend more time with my girlfriend.’ " He quickly came to realize the high cost. "I feel guilty about this," he said. "I’m trying to apologize for any inconvenience caused by my mistake. It’s a big mistake."  "I never face this situation before; I try to do my best to fix the problem," Mr. Jiang went on, by getting a lawyer and admitting his mistake. He does not type his name into search engines: the sheer number of hits is overwhelming. He anticipates serving half of his community service in a soup kitchen - "I like to cook" - and the other half in a hospital or some sort of nonprofit agency. He flew to California without incident for Valentine’s Day. He and his girlfriend talk for 2,000 minutes a month, he said, mostly late at night. He plans on moving to California to be with her and work in a laboratory after completing his degree in May or June. She has no plans to return to New York. Her Christmas visit, despite its frightening postscript, still brings a smile to Mr. Jiang’s face. "We had a lot of fun in those days," he said.
