‘Ambiverts’ take over
For years, psychologists have divided people into two basic personality types: introverts and extroverts.You are most likely an introvert if you don’t like crowds and enjoy keeping your thoughts to yourself. An extrovert, on the other hand, likes meeting new people and being the center of attention.But have you ever felt like neither label fit quite right? In general, you crave company. But sometimes, especially after a long day at work, all you want to do is read a book or take a long bath all by yourself. If you feel this way, you are not alone. According to an article in The Wall Street Journal, experts say there’s middle ground on the personality spectrum, and people they refer to as “ambiverts” fall somewhere in between.Entrepreneur.com says the term “ambivert” first appeared in American sociologist Kimball Young’s “Source Book for Social Psychology”. The text was published in 1927, six years after Swiss psychologist Carl Jung’s groundbreaking “Psychological Types”, which outlined his theories on extroverts and introverts. In fact, Jung identified a third category of personality traits but didn’t name it or write much about it. But he did argue that “there is no such thing as a pure extrovert or a pure introvert. Such a man would be in the lunatic asylum.”Ambiverts, as the name suggests, have both introverted and extroverted characteristics. But neither trait is dominant. As a result, ambiverts have more balanced personalities.Ambiverts move between being social and being alone with greater ease than either extroverts or introverts. “It is like they’re bilingual,” Daniel Pink told The Wall Street Journal. Pink is the host of “Crowd Control”, a US TV series on human behavior, and has studied ambiversion. “They have a wider range of skills and can connect with a wider range of people in the same way someone who speaks English and Spanish can.”Ambiversion has gotten more attention in recent years, thanks to books, TEDx talks and consulting firms focusing on how personality traits impact people’s behaviors in relationships and careers. More than half the US population is ambiverted, according to Adam Grant, a professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. Grant’s research shows that roughly two-thirds of people are ambiverts, while one-third are either strong introverts or strong extroverts.Grant believes ambiverts make excellent salespeople. “Ambiverts are like Goldilocks – they offer neither too much nor too little,” he told The Wall Street Journal. This emotional acuity also gives ambiverts unique skills in personal relationships. But Grants points out that, unlike extroverts and introverts who tend to know what energizes them, ambiverts can sometimes get stuck. They are often unsure which side of their personality should lead in a given situation.
