Street life on camera
What do you do when you see an exciting scene or an interesting person on the street? Many people nowadays would whip out their camera and take a snapshot. After all, nothing could be easier or more fun than street photography. Some people, however, are taking it to the next level. They turn street photography into art.French photographer Henri Cartier-Bresson popularized street photography as an art in the 1950s, by establishing a set of style guidelines in his book The Decisive Moment.When it comes to what transforms great photos into art, his answer is geometry. A good photographer needs to make the subject stand out from the background, especially in the street where the setting is already visually crowded. The next thing a photographer needs to do is to wait for the “decisive moment” – the moment that will not repeat itself in history. It is probably the skill that is the easiest to learn, yet the hardest to master.Influenced by Cartier-Bresson, later street photographers have come up with their own interpretations of the art form.Brandon Stanton, a 31-year-old American photographer known for his blog Humans of New York, has been documenting New York City’s inhabitants over the past five years. His second book Humans of New York: Stories was released early last week.What makes Stanton’s work different is his special attention to the human-interest side of photography. The “decisive moment” for Stanton is the instant when his subject reveals his or her deepest feelings. It’s then that Stanton clicks his camera. He collects snippets of their stories and later puts them alongside the photos.However, Bill Cunningham, an American street style icon, doesn’t care about technique. He’s been documenting women’s fashion for more than 50 years in New York City. He told The New York Times, “It’s not photography. I’m just documenting what I see. I let the street speak to me.”The only thing he cares about is his subject, beautiful clothes. You can clearly see from Cunningham’s photos that celebrities wearing free clothes are not his interest. The “decisive moment” comes to him whenever he spots a beautiful stiletto, a gorgeous jacket or anything he deems fashionable. He sometimes spends the whole day riding on his bicycle, looking for clothes he feels are worth documenting.If you think street photography is about constantly searching for the perfect subject and capturing a fleeting moment, you have only got it half right. You have to observe, wait and create the image that resonates with you. And of course, don’t miss the “decisive moment”!
