Depression on rise among youth
While we all try to find happiness, sometimes we still end up feeling low. While most people can control this feeling, low moods (情绪) can stay with some, leading to depression (抑郁).About 322 million people suffered from depression in 2015, according to a report by the World Health Organization (WHO) in February. This is more than 4 percent of the world’s population.Depression is described by the WHO as a mental disorder (精神病). It has several symptoms (症状) including sadness, loss of interest and feelings of low self-worth. In severe cases, depression may lead to suicide (自杀).The number of people living with depression is increasing. The WHO reported a rise of 18.4 percent between 2005 and 2015. This is not only because the world’s overall population grew, but also because life expectancies (寿命) rose.There are three age groups that are particularly likely to develop depression.One group is the elderly (年长的), while another group is women who are pregnant (怀孕的) or have just given birth.In addition, young people are another group known to suffer with depression. “The pressures on today’s youth are like no other generation, perhaps,” Dan Chisholm of the WHO’s Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse told Reuters.In China, depression among young people is on the rise, Zhu Zhuohong, a psychology (心理学) professor with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told Xinhua News Agency. Competition to outperform others, especially in education, can cause a lot of pressure for Chinese youth.Almost 1.2 million Chinese people aged 15 to 24 suffer from depression, according to a report released by British science journal The Lancet in May.“My parents always tell me my classmates are competitors. So I take them as my enemies and feel upset whenever I see them,” Xiao Min, a 14-year-old sufferer of depression, told Xinhua.Luckily, more and more efforts are being made to deal with this problem. This year’s World Health Day, held on April 7, will focus on depression. The day will highlight (强调) the “Depression: let’s talk” campaign. The campaign aims to make sure that people with depression both seek (寻求) and get help.“We feel that this is a key first step. If we want to bring mental health, depression and other mental disorders out of the shadows (阴影), we need to be able to talk about them,” said Chisholm.
