Shall we grab a bite to tweet?
With Burger King’s new ad featuring a hamburger looks like a *burrito, or Pepsi’s revival of its eery-looking clear cola, it seems that fast-food *slingers are spending more time creating attention-grabbing *concoctions in their labs rather than fresh ideas in the kitchen.In fact, bizarre combinations of otherwise familiar foods are coming in faster than people can get through them.With the “Whopperito” – Tex-Mex hamburger meat, *smothered in cheese and wrapped in a flour *tortilla – Burger King hopes to attract diners who find the Dr Frankenstein-like creation appealing.“It’s just to get peoples’ attention to come in to the restaurants,” says Alex Macedo, president of Burger King North America. While Macedo says sales see a boost from limited edition menu options, they’re “also important for keeping the brand relevant.”Not to be left behind, Pepsi Co is bringing back a *cult favorite from its past, Crystal Pepsi – an unusual *elixir of clear cola that has the same taste as the familiar fizzy brown stuff but which appears “crystal” clear. The throwback returns to stores in the US this month for a limited run. Pepsi even recently hosted a free ’90s-themed concert in Manhattan to re-launch the soft drink which disappeared from shelves in 1994 following poor sales.With social media sharing and “going viral” now the modern kings of marketing, junk food sellers are facing pressure to *churn out social media-friendly – and sometimes borderline bizarre – products in order to stay in the eyes of their audience.“They want people tweeting things out, they want people taking pictures of their plate, because there’s more competition out there,” says Dan Rene, senior vice president at US-based strategic communications firm Levick.Trends are also moving at a faster pace than they used to, forcing companies to constantly come up with unconventional ideas in order to out-do one another.“Customers get bored very, very quickly,” says Neil Saunders, CEO of retail research firm Conlumino in the US. “You have to work increasingly hard to get the message across.”Sometimes that means *reanimating products of *yesteryear to lure loyal fans who may be *enticed to spend their hard earned cash just to get a bite or sip of *nostalgia.In 2010, KFC came out with the Double Down, a sandwich made with two boneless chicken *fillets in lieu of the bread. It sparked so much intrigue that the chain brought it back for a limited time in 2014.Burger King also did something similar. Its chicken fries – essentially *strips of chicken made to look like french fries – came to the market for a limited time in 2005, with the fast food giant deciding to give them a temporary resurgence in 2014. But following high sales of the chicken-based creation upon its temporary re-release, the company decided to upgrade it to a permanent fixture on the menu.“It drove traffic,” says Macedo. “It brought in people that otherwise weren’t coming to. That’s the biggest success.”
