Mind giving me a ride?
SUN Jianxin, 21, was just getting out of his Volkswagen car as his professor walked by on the way to the teaching building. "Nice car," the teacher said by way of greeting.Sun said nothing and smiled weakly, feeling a bit embarrassed."It was strange knowing that my professor walks to class while I drive," said Sun, a student at Beijing University of Technology. After that encounter, he decided to park his car away from the teaching area.Students like Sun who buy a car are sometimes surprised to find that it comes equipped with a few headaches.For instance, Li Zhenxing, an Wuhan University management major, likes to share things. Whenever he buys something, whether it be drinks or snacks, he remembers to share with his buddies. He also has a car, so he organized a city tour for four friends.But he ended up getting stuck with the 200-yuan bill for a tank of gas. His friends never said a word about splitting the cost, and this made him a little uncomfortable."It is not about the money, really," the 22-year-old Li said. "As friends, they should have helped me with the burden, at least a little. I did that [the tour] as a gesture of friendship, and I think I deserved something in return." And it didn’t end there. Li said that some of his friends would ask him to pick up their girlfriend from another campus. This annoyed him even more. "Giving a free ride to friends is different from driving around someone you don’t even know." So now, he leaves the car at home, and only uses it for things he thinks are really necessary.Zheng Xu, 22, a teaching major at Central China Normal University, regrets having been too straightforward when some friends asked him if they could take his Peugeot for a spin around campus, without a license. Zheng turned them down because it was risky. After several attempts, nobody came to him anymore for the car, or to play basketball or poker."I know it is very un-cool to turn friends down," said Zheng, "but this is a car, not a bike, and I have to think: What if they hit someone? I’m the one who would have to face the police."According to Feng Jie, Sun Jianxin’s roommate at Beijing University of Technology, a car can bring convenience, but it’s not a necessity. The next time Sun met his professor, both of them were on foot. But he was surprised to find that his car was still a topic of conversation."My teacher asked me for details about my car, because he was thinking of getting one," recalled Sun. "I was really relieved." The two ended up having a nice chat about cars, and, guess what? – Sun’s back to parking his car in front of the teaching building.
