The measure of Marvel’s smallest hero
In an age when superhero movies are constantly pursuing bigger casts, grander themes and more powerful heroes, Marvel is thinking small.The studio’s latest comic book adaptation, Ant-Man, features an ex-con named Scott Lang, played by American actor Paul Rudd, 46. Instead of transforming into a big, muscular superhero like the Hulk, Lang’s most distinctive characteristic is his ability to reduce himself to the size of an ant when wearing an experimental suit invented by scientist Hank Pym (Michael Douglas).Lang’s mission is not as lofty as “saving the universe”. Rather, he has to keep the suit from falling into the hands of villains who are trying to weaponize it.The movie also has a smaller budget than any previous Marvel adaptations.Apparently, Ant-Man is less significant in every way than its predecessors, but it’s definitely “no small Marvel”, says USA Today.It’s true that Lang doesn’t have to deal with plummeting spacecraft or alien dragons, but when he shrinks to microscopic size, even ordinary locations in his house turn into treacherous environments that are full of threats. Overflowing bath-tub water becomes a flood for Ant-Man, and the front lawn feels like a jungle. Ant-Man’s unique viewpoint adds novelty to some of the action scenes.The movie also achieves something that Marvel blockbusters have been missing all along – “a very human unease with super-heroism”, as The Telegraph puts it. Instead of being a perfect and altruistic hero, Lang is basically a goofball, a fact that fills the movie with hilarious moments and “small” pleasures.“Ant-Man dabbles in the bright, playful colors of the superhero spectrum, reveling in moments of cartoonish whimsy and smirky humor,” commented The New York Times.But the movie is not just a comedy. It also has moments of human drama, as Lang struggles with his ex-wife and daughter, as well as his relationship with Hank’s daughter Hope (played by Evangeline Lilly). There’s also a subplot about the almost estranged father-daughter relationship between Hank and Hope.However, the movie’s tangled themes left some viewers dissatisfied. Critics said that the movie is trying to do too much, and that none of the plotlines are developed in enough depth, which leads to superficial storytelling.This is why Mirror describes it as “more an hors-d’oeuvre than a full meal”.But like it or not, this won’t be the last time that you see Ant-Man. At the end of the film, it’s suggested that Marvel’s tiniest superhero will soon join his big brothers in the next Avengers sequel.
