How do you sleep at night?
We spend a third of our lives asleep, yet while it’s accepted that sleep is good for health, many people don’t realise it’s not just the quality and quantity of sleep that matters — it’s also the position you adopt. RECOVERY POSITION Known as the recovery position because it’s similar to the posture used in medical emergencies, this can help reduce acid reflux and aid indigestion.But though it could relieve a painful stomach, sleeping on your side could worsen wrinkles. ACTION: If sleeping on your left side doesn’t help, and heartburn and indigestion are still proving a problem, prop up the head of your bed slightly, so that the upper body is higher than the stomach. This can help reduce acid reflux when sleeping, as gravity keeps the acid in the stomach. THE CORPSE Many sleep experts point out that sleeping on your back is a good option for those who suffer from arthritis and joint pain. This is because sleeping on your back distributes weight evenly throughout the body, without putting strain on any specific area.However, the same sleep position is well known to aggravate snoring. In this position, the muscles in the jaw and tongue are relaxed, and the jaw and throat sag under the influence of gravity. This causes the throat to become narrower, producing air turbulence which leads to vibration and snoring. ACTION: If this is your favourite sleeping position, then make sure you invest in a firm pillow. A lack of support for the neck and upper spine can cause tension in the muscles of the neck and shoulders, resulting in pain. For those who snore only when sleeping on their back, placing a pillow under their upper back may encourage them to change sleeping position and shift onto their side or front.FOETAL POSITIONThis is the most common sleeping position in the UK. Sleeping like this can help repair wear and tear in the back.Experts advise that sleeping in the foetal position is ideal, as curling the body inwards opens up the back, reducing pressure on the discs and boosting repair.However, it is important to ensure that your pillow is not too high or too low, as this can strain the muscles and nerves in the neck, leading to head and neck pain in the morning.ACTION: Finding a pillow that properly fills the gap between the shoulders and the neck will help to prevent any neck strain or headaches. Get your partner to lie in this position and look at their spine and neck — they should be in a straight line. A pillow propped between the knees can help to keep the spine in alignment and prevent unwanted twisting of the hips and pelvis.SPOONING Lying in each other’s arms can certainly boost the strength of a relationship, and a study found that physical touch, even while sleeping, can reduce feelings of stress in both men and women.  However, this position can mean you are forcing your body into a position that can exacerbate existing aches and strains in the joints and muscles. ACTION: When sharing a bed with a partner, it is important to be selfish about your sleeping arrangements. Find a good starting position that is comfortable for you, even if this means putting distance between the two of you.
