Fighting fake news
Whose story would you believe: your favorite social media star’s or a world famous newspaper’s?A recent study, called Media Insight Project, discovered something interesting. The project, funded (资助) by the American Press Institute and The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, found that people’s trust in a piece of content (内容) on Facebook was stronger if they trusted the person who shared it, regardless of which organization published it.In the study, scientists built a fake (虚假的) Facebook post about health news and showed it to about 1,500 Americans. Half of them got the post from a sharer they said they trusted – a public figure such as US TV star Oprah Winfrey. The others got it from a sharer they didn’t trust. Half of them were shown that the article was published by news agency the Associated Press (AP), while the other half was shown a made-up news provider, Daily News Review.The results showed that what mattered most was whether the story was posted by someone who people trust. For example, more people thought the article was accurate (准确的) if the sharer was trusted but the article came from a fictitious (虚构的) news outlet (49 percent). If the article came from the AP but the sharer was not trusted, the results were lower (32 percent).The participants were also more likely to share the article, follow the person who shared it, or otherwise engage (互动) with the post when they got it from someone they trusted.“When people see news from a person they trust, they are more likely to think it gets the facts right, contains diverse (多样的) points of view, and is well reported than if the same article is shared by someone they are skeptical (怀疑) of,” the researchers wrote.It seems that the same pattern also fits teenagers. A recent study by the nonprofit Common Sense Media claimed that teenagers are particularly trusting of news from family members and teachers. It showed that 66 percent of them said they trust the information received from family, compared with 25 percent for news organizations.So what does this mean for social media users?“As citizens of information and consumers (消费者) of information, we have to learn how to be critical (批判的) of the information that we consume. Journalists have an important role to play in helping audiences navigate the news ecosystem (生态系统),” Claire Wardle, a digital media researcher from First Draft News, said in an ABC TV debate on the rise of fake news.
