Physical books preferred
With smartphones and e-readers becoming more common, some have worried that the days of paper books are numbered. But as a recent survey showed, traditional books are still popular among readers.Industry research company Nielsen found that 7 percent more paper books were sold in the UK in 2016 compared to the previous year, while sales of their digital rivals declined (下降) by 4 percent. It was the second year in a row that e-book sales have fallen, according to the report released last month.So what is behind 2016’s print comeback?Nielsen’s survey, surprisingly, found that it is young people who preferred physical books to e-reader versions.In another study conducted in 2013 by the youth research agency Voxburner in the UK, more than 60 percent of 16-to-24-year-olds said they preferred print books to e-books. The most popular reason given was: “I like to hold the product.”Steve Bohme, research director at Nielsen Book Research UK, explained that young people were using books as a break from their daily connections to electronic devices (设备) and social media. “We are seeing that books are a respite (缓解), particularly for young people who are so busy digitally,” he told The Guardian.And it is not just UK youth who prefer print books. The story is the same in other countries.According to a study by American University linguistics (语言学) professor Naomi S. Baron, 92 percent of college students preferred paper books instead of e-books. In 2010 and 2013, Baron led a team that asked more than 420 university students from the United States, Slovakia, Japan and Germany how they preferred to read.The main reasons were that when reading e-books, students are easily distracted. Some also ended up with headaches or sore eyes.In addition, print books can bring a very different reading experience.Slovakian students in particular said that they liked the smell of books when reading a hard copy. Other students said that they get a sense of accomplishment when they finish reading a paper book and they enjoy seeing it on the bookshelf.“There really is a physical, tactile (触觉的) ... component to reading,” Baron told the New Republic.While e-book sales have declined, Bohme pointed out that it was still important to remember that the figures (数字) were still higher than they were five years ago in the UK.Bohme told The Guardian that e-book sales would continue to decline this year as industry confidence in traditional books increases. “If we have a couple of years of that success story, print sales will keep going up,” he said.
