Stay calm, everybody
When Beihang University freshmen learned that one of their own had died after a bout with the pandemic (H1N1) flu last week, panic broke out at the military training facility that housed them. Many of the 3,000 freshmen ran to one of two public phones to call their parents and friends. Parents, in turn, raced to the facility to take their child home.This reaction among Beihang freshmen and their parents is understandable – even inevitable. But if such panic is allowed to persist, experts say, it can seriously hurt efforts to control the spread of pandemic (H1N1). So health officials and students are giving Beihang’s handling of the outbreak mixed reviews."Students freaked out on day one," said freshman Liu Chang, 18. "We were so scared that we would be the next one [to die]."Because cellphone use was not permitted at the facility, students were forced to queue up at one of two public phones. Many urged their parents to meet them at the gate and take them home. That was the only way they would be permitted to exit what many considered a place of risk.As soon as he received his son’s call, Liu’s father raced to Beijing in a rented vehicle, driving all the way from a rural area near Hengshui city in Hebei province. Meanwhile, Liu waited as classmates around him began showing symptoms of the flu.According to Beihang University officials, about 700 freshmen have or had the pandemic (H1N1) flu. Over the weekend, Deng Xiaohong, vice-chief of the Beijing Municipal Health Bureau, announced that 300 of them had recovered after receiving medical treatment at the training facility.Xiong Guocheng, of the Hubei Disease Control and Prevention Center, says that it’s important for students and parents to keep calm in emergencies."Panic, like disease, also infects people," warned Xiong. "Low spirits, fear, anger and depression can all negatively affect human health, both mentally and physically."Staying ‘positive’Meanwhile, Yu Hongjie, deputy director of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s Disease Control Office, wants to assure students at Beihang and elsewhere that there is no reason to panic."According to our statistics, the pandemic (H1N1) cases on university campuses are mild," said Yu. "With proper, speedy treatment, students can recover quickly."After the initial panic that gripped the training camp, officials say they have managed to restore calm. One Beihang faculty member at the facility said that by the weekend the more than 2,000 students still being housed in the training facility were in a "positive mood".Moreover, he said, the university was quick to provide students with milk and fruit to ensure their health. The school also handed out playing cards so that students could distract themselves with games.Xiong, of the Hubei Disease Control and Prevention Center, says he’s pleased with Beihang’s handling of the situation after the initial panic. "Two important things have been covered – providing quality food and entertainment to distract students from fears," Xiong said.Interviews with students on Friday seemed to confirm that order and calm had been restored. "We played poker all day long," a student surnamed Jiang said from behind the facility’s fence. "We’re doing fine."Meanwhile, Beihang officials canceled military training activities on October 30. Also, a national technological innovation competition being held on the Beihang campus ended two days ahead of schedule. School officials have not yet decided when freshmen will be permitted to return to campus.
