Sandals add perfect finishing touch
Adorable maxi skirts, high-waisted jeans shorts, and, of course, little summer dresses will all be on your shopping list as you get ready for the season. But apart from these items of clothing, don’t forget the importance of stylish shoes during your shopping spree.Fashion markets are overloaded with all kinds of shoes for different purposes, but sandals are the best for summer. So take a look at the hottest trends and then start your hunt for the most statement-making pairs!Pointed toesPointed toes shoes are one of the best choices for women this season. They accentuate your cool looks and make for a real mini-revolution in the world of fashion. Some well-known fashion brands like Dior and Saint Laurent are all presenting super creative shapes this season. Available in flat heels and high pencil heels, they’re perfect for various occasions. The ones with an open heel are suitable for office workers and formal meetings, while straps and buckles make for a more elegant look.Chunky designsPopular a few years ago, chunky sandals have made a full recovery and pushed their way right back into the fashion world. The chunky design not only goes for the heels, but for the platforms as well. Long days demand shoes that go the distance. Chunky heels are reputed to be comfortable and provide support for your feet all day long. They are versatile enough to go with any outfit.Except for the heels, the addition of trendy colors and embellishments also make them must-haves.Colors and printsColorful and printed shoes are one of the most pleasant and energizing options in hot summers. They are meant to create the romantic and irresistible cute looks that many girls long for. The colors suggested by the fashion brands this year include coral, oceanic blue, classic red, yellow, sweet pink, as well as patterned options like checks in black and white, or dots in black and blue.Floral prints, as a hot trend this summer, are also welcome when it comes to sandals. You can wear flats with a cute floral embellishment, or sport some chunky sandals with plenty of wildly colored flowers to enhance their style.Straps and foldsMultiple straps folded across your feet will create intricate patterns and give you a sexy look. Mainly used in the open toe and heeled sandal variants, they are available in many styles and enrich the design of sandals.This season, gladiator sandals are really hot. Whether you choose simple flat sandals with a couple of straps, or go for the complete gladiator look that ends right below the knee, you are sure to be eye-catching.BirkenstocksAs the classic shoes of hippies, the Birkenstocks have made a serious comeback. This kind of sandal is simply made out of cork and leather with two buckles. They can be found in plain naturals, fun colors, or even with patterns this season. The chunkiness of this style makes your legs look thinner. They are also easy to match with other pieces like loose pants or frayed denim shorts to give you a casual look. Plus, they are comfortable. If you’re just looking for a combination of style and comfort, then this is the best option.
