New hopes for the New Year
2010 has been a dynamic year full of constant changes, energy and ideas. With 2010 disappearing over the horizon, we look forward to 2011 and perhaps a shift to a gentler pace of change. China’s economy is expected to move into a sustainable mode. Environmentally-minded global citizens pray that 2011’s climate change talks in South Africa will be successful.China seeks sustainability amid global crisisAmid the global financial crisis, China saw steady economic growth in 2010. International Monetary Fund statistics show that China will replace Japan this year as the world’s second largest economy in terms of its overall GDP.But in the 12th Five-Year Plan which begins in 2011, China will possibly lower its GDP growth rate target. The move, experts said, reflects the industrial sector’s change of focus to quality. The consumer price index (CPI) accelerated to a 28-month high of 5.1 percent in November. Next year, to control rising prices, China will shift its monetary policy from “moderately loose” to “prudent”. Banks will lend “reasonably, moderately and steadily”. China is also determined to maintain housing prices at a reasonable level next year, and will start to build 10 million units of government-subsidized housing in 2011, nearly double this year’s 5.8 million units.On the global stage, “adjustment” was the buzzword for major economies in 2010. The US struggled to overcome economic flaws accumulated over the years. Europe fought two debt crises, and emerging economies tried to fend off potential inflation risks. Given the slow recovery process and daunting policy challenges, growth prospects for 2011 are hardly optimistic.Zhang Xiaowei, 19, East China University of Science and TechnologyMy monthly expenses have increased by 20 percent this year. Many of us are wondering: should we ask our parents for more money?But I regard it as an opportunity for college students to learn to manage our money better. I used management software to plan my income and spending. I researched credit cards and buying in installments. Rising housing prices have changed my attitude to life. Renting, which doesn’t tie you down to one place, is better than buying.Deadly 2010 gives climate warningPeople say 2010 was the year when the Earth struck back. Earthquakes, heat waves, floods, volcanoes, super typhoons, snow storms, landslides and droughts killed at least 250,000 people, globally.2010 has been the deadliest in more than a generation.This year’s disasters are a warning of things to come, unless we deal with the challenge of climate change.In December, UN climate change talks in Cancun, Mexico, produced a modest deal that takes forward efforts to cope with climate change.Countries agreed to prevent deforestation and promote the transfer of low-carbon technologies to developing countries. There was also an agreement to set up a green fund by 2020. However, governments failed to reach agreement on how far overall global emissions should be cut. The most difficult decisions have been left for the next climate conference in Durban, South Africa, in December 2011. Durban will be the last chance to save the Kyoto Protocol, the only existing, legally binding treaty, which expires in 2012.Xiao Yibo, 18, Northeast Agricultural UniversityThe natural disasters in 2010 make me feel unsafe in this world. I fear I may find myself amid the debris of an earthquake one day. Or some pandemic disease may break out in a heavily polluted area.Leaving aside my fears, I put my hope in global efforts to reduce the harmful effects of disasters and to rescue the victims. We young people should lead low-carbon lifestyles. I prefer to take a walk rather than a drive, and use little air-conditioning in the summer.
