Pokemon sweeps the globe
The zombie *apocalypse is happening in the real world: Millions of people have been transformed into mindless, *stumbling bots by one particularly popular mobile app, says the Boston Herald.The app, entitled Pokemon GO, is an *augmented reality game that launched two weeks ago in the US, Australia and New Zealand. If you’re familiar with the Pokemon franchise, you know its premise. Users inhabit the role of trainers, tasked with capturing fictional animals called Pokemon and training them to fight. The new app allows players to wander through neighborhoods and other public places, trying to discover geo-located Pokemon characters. They show up, as if in the real world, on players’ smartphone screens, set against the player’s real-world surroundings.There’s an element of *nostalgia that’s driving the Pokemon GO craze. Since its release, the app has become the top download on the Google Play store, above Facebook, Snapchat and Instagram, reported the Los Angeles Times.And it’s causing real-life *mayhem too. In Washington state, US, police posted a warning on social media after players had been found “creeping... in the dark, popping out of bushes,” to capture Pokemon characters. The Darwin Police Station in Australia also discovered people trying to find Pokemon characters outside their building.For many young people, it is more than just a game. Its interactive features give it social value, as a way to meet fellow fans. Mason Morehead, a 23-year-old Indiana University student, told The Herald-Times that after he released some of his Pokemon characters as a “lure” at his campus, “nearly 50 players show up to talk, *strategize, and, of course, catch ’em all.”And as he continued playing the game, Morehead noted another bonus: Fitness.“Normally, I’m in my room playing any number of video games,” he said. “Since this came out, I’ve spent every single day walking around, charging my phone and walking some more. It’s so healthy compared to what I was doing before.”For Jacob Hines, a US restaurant manager, the app’s attractiveness lies in the positive message it conveys.He grew up watching Pokemon, the TV show. “It’s a *utopian society where everyone just pushes each other to become better,” he told The Herald-Times. Now, he’s seeing that happen in real time.“I interacted with several different social groups that I probably wouldn’t have talked to if I hadn’t had my game out,” he said. “It’s just really cool to see everyone interacting so naturally.”
