Bite of summer freshness
In hot summers, nothing whets our appetite like a fresh salad. Quick and easy to make, it is a must-have on the table. While many may think it’s just about mixing some vegetables together and adding a sauce, salads come in many variations around the world.Here, we introduce some well-known salads from different regions. Fruit, vegetables or meat, you will find one that appeals to your taste.Sesame Chicken SaladOrigin: AsiaPacked with fresh vegetables and a sesame dressing, this chicken salad is a light and refreshing meal perfect for summer nights. Highlighted by juicy chicken breast, coriander, and toasted sesame seeds, the bulk is made up of peppers, cucumber and snap peas. The sesame dressing ties all the ingredients together and gives the dish a sweet and tangy flavor. Also, it puts any leftover chicken to good use and only takes a few minutes to prepare.Mango SaladOrigin: ThailandCrisp and refreshing, this salad is made with unripened (green) mango, mung bean sprouts, red pepper and plenty of coriander. Thin strips of mango are tossed in a tangy dressing that features all the flavors of Thai cooking: tart fresh lime juice, salty fish sauce, spicy chilies, and sweet brown sugar. You can add some basil and peanuts before serving to maintain color and texture. As a bonus, it’s low in calories and fat to keep you in shape.Salad NicoiseOrigin: FranceOriginating from the Cote d’Azur region of France along the Mediterranean sea, which is known for its olives and plentiful seafood, the salad nicoise is made by combining tomatoes, eggs, cucumber, green onions, artichokes, garlic and anchovies. The dressing is made from olive oil, basil, salt, pepper and vinegar. Not only tasty, it’s full of protein and carbohydrates, which will keep you full until the next meal. Appearing like a rainbow, it covers a broad spectrum of vitamins and minerals as well. Popular in the US, it was taken its place next to the classic Cobb salad.Caesar SaladOrigin: MexicoAlso known as the king of salads, this dish is not named after the illustrious Roman emperor Caesar, but an Italian chef called Caesar Cardini who created this salad in his restaurant in Tijuana, Mexico in 1924. It became popular in Hollywood and is considered an American classic.Typically a salad of romaine lettuce, croutons and egg dressed with Parmesan cheese, oil and lemon juice, it is usually prepared and served right at the table. Worcestershire sauce and anchovies are common ingredients. The crunchy romaine lettuce and sharp bits of Parmesan cheese create its unique texture.Caprese SaladOrigin: ItalyWith a minimum of ingredients, this fresh and juicy salad is a favorite among salad lovers. It originates from the southwest island of Capri in Italy and reflects the colors of the Italian flag. Traditionally, it consists of tomatoes, sliced mozzarella cheese and basil leaves, drizzled with olive oil. In Italy, this salad is usually served as an appetizer. In other places, it is also served as a side dish or a popular filling for sandwiches. While simple to make, it requires the best ingredients, such as ripe and juicy tomatoes.
