Morality in festive music
It’s the holiday season, and some of you would prefer that *columnists tone down the negativity, take a break from the criticizing and show some Christmas spirit. What better season to *mellow out than this one? Bring on the *twinkling lights and the soothing *carols – starting with that old feel-good, Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer , in which the little guy wins the day.Everyone loves the story of this little reindeer with a feature that makes him different. He has that *fluorescent red nose, which sets him apart from all his reindeer friends. But let’s be clear: They’re no friends. They ridicule Rudolph because he’s different.They probably never met another reindeer that looked different. Maybe they’re just jealous. After all, their noses are only good for breathing and smelling, while Rudolph’s also acts as a light bulb – if anything, he should be the one laughing and calling the other reindeer names. But Rudolph’s too *classy to do that, and the bullies are evidently too clueless to see his advantage. Unfortunately, his silence doesn’t end the laughing and name-calling from the other side. It gets worse. Those other reindeer also won’t let Rudolph join in their reindeer games.Yes, I know, the story has a happy ending. When Santa asks Rudolph “with your nose so bright” to guide his *sleigh, he’s showing the bullies that their punching bag has advantages useful to the most popular guy on Christmas. But can you really say the reindeer now “love” Rudolph and celebrate his going down in history? Fat chance – they’re just being opportunists. What have they really learned? Where’s Rudolph’s apology?The good news is that Hawaii-born musician Jack Johnson shares a different ending to the story, in which Rudolph gets empowered, and the other reindeer get the message.So the story has many morals, beginning with the importance of parents and institutions teaching young reindeer to be accepting of all. What if a *bystander reindeer had stepped in and helped Rudolph? In fact, instead of higher-ups resolving the situation individually, what if the decent reindeer started a grassroots movement, compelling the *rogue ones to see the errors of their ways, make *amends and join the movement? What if Rudolph went down in history not for his personal achievement, but for making things better for all future red-nosed and otherwise different reindeer?It feels good to set aside politics in favor of fantasy for a while. Or maybe we get to write our own endings.
