Best shades of 2016
“A double serving of his-and-hers cotton candy.” This is how Kim Palmer from the Star Tribune describes 2016’s “Color of the Year”, a title shared by two shades: Rose Quartz (水晶粉) and Serenity (静谧蓝).The Pantone Color Institute, a global provider of professional color standards for design industries, chooses a new color to represent each year. But 2016 is unique. It marks the first time two colors have been chosen together.Compared to last year’s color – Marsala, a dark, red-brown hue – the pale pink and baby blue shades are much softer and more peaceful. According to Pantone, Rose Quartz and Serenity exude “mindfulness and well-being as an antidote to modern-day stresses” since “baby-soft colors provide a welcome psychological security blanket”.Apart from their calming effects, the two colors also represent cultural trends. “In many parts of the world we are experiencing a gender blur,” said Leatrice Eiseman, executive director of Pantone, in the company’s announcement. “This more unilateral approach to color is coinciding with societal movements toward gender equality and fluidity.”How to wear themAccording to fashion writer Kristyn Schiavone, the ideal match for Rose Quartz is gray. No matter what shade of gray you choose, it will elegantly pair with the soft pink color.While Rose Quartz is often perceived as a feminine color, this shade of pink is not exclusively for women. Men can easily pull off the shade, since it’s so subdued. “It’s not overly aggressive, like a hot pink would be,” wrote Schiavone in her Tribune Content Agency column, Simple Style.In winter, for example, men can wear Rose Quartz under a gray sweater or a suit to lighten up the whole outfit.As for Serenity, it’s best matched with shades of tan – no matter whether you choose a light shade like almond or a dark hue like camel. You can integrate tan into your Serenity-themed outfit not only through your clothes, but also through accessories like bags and belts.Room decorThough both colors are soft and calm, Rose Quartz and Serenity have different effects on room decor.“Weightless and airy, like the expanse of the blue sky above us” is how Pantone describes Serenity. It provides a sense of space and relaxation in your room. Rose Quartz, on the other hand, is a “persuasive yet gentle tone that conveys compassion and a sense of composure”.The function of the room should be taken into consideration, before you decorate with either of these colors. “Blue is great when you need to relax, but it’s also regarded as an appetite suppressant,” Adele Roche, a color consultant for Colortrend, told the Irish Examiner. “So pink is better where you are eating.”
