Current generation defined
It’s believed that the current generation of young people will shape the future of the country. But how is it different from previous generations?To try and find the answer to this question, City Zine magazine and IT giant Tencent conducted a survey. They questioned 4,000 respondents to get a better idea of the post-1995 generation and what makes it stand out.Hobby timeThe study found that 73 percent of respondents have hobbies, with music being the most popular. Of those surveyed, 62 percent named music as their favorite leisure activity. Gaming took the second spot, with 58 percent. Perhaps surprisingly, reading beat watching videos – although only by 1 percent – at 40 percent. Cartoons and anime followed closely, tying with travel at 37 percent. And according to another Tencent survey released in 2016, 72.9 percent of internet users among post-1995 generation watch films and the programs adapted from web novels.Members of this generation are also willing to spend cash on their hobbies – 85 percent of respondents have spent money on them at some point. About 10 percent report blowing over 10,000 yuan at a time for a single experience.And while many believe that gaming can turn you into a couch potato, this generation is proving them wrong. Wang Zilu, a 22-year-old student and gaming fan, graduated a year early from high school through an experimental program and was accepted into Beihang University. He’s currently furthering his studies at Beihang’s Fert Beijing Research Institute as a doctoral student.“I play games – all kinds of them,” Wang told China Daily. “I’ve played computer games since I was a kid. I also like Japanese anime, such as Detective Canon and Naruto.”Independent interestsUnlike their parents, members of the post-1995 generation select majors based on their interests.That’s why 21-year-old Wang Zeping, a student at Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, chose traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) as his major, although some relatives and neighbors disapproved of his choice. “I like traditional Chinese culture, and TCM is part of it,” he told China Daily.He has dreamed of being a doctor since high school and is now trying to make his dream come true.The student is also president of Qihuang Volunteers, a collegiate society of medical students at the university. The group visits Beijing universities and neighborhoods to offer free health checks and massage therapy on weekends. They also promote TCM awareness.“Being a doctor requires a selfless, empathetic and volunteering spirit,” he said.
