An odd couple comedy
After hearing the saying “Love is blind” millions of times we may think for a second that it’s an ultimate truth. Well, the new homegrown romantic comedy Love Is Not Blind sets out to prove the old saying is wrong.Based on the popular novel of the same name, the film charts the events of a 33-day period between two colleagues and friends–Huang Xiaoxian (Bai Baihe) and Wang Xiaojian (Wen Zhang), after Huang breaks up with her boyfriend of seven years. They work together in a wedding planning company.Even if you’re not interested in the “let’s talk about love” or “how to deal with a breakup” angle, you will be impressed by the funny lines and amusing moments in the film.Of course, most of those don’t come from the character of Huang, whose story of a young woman falling out of love is nothing new. Instead, what makes the film memorable is Wang, a type of character audiences don’t see much in past Chinese films.Wen Zhang’s performance as Wang is undoubtedly the biggest surprise of the film. Wang is a thin and slightly effeminate young man in his mid-twenties, who is devoted to the finer things in life.His gestures–the way he walks or holds a bag, uses hand cream and applies lip balm–reveal his prissy nature. In a voiceover at the beginning of the film Huang remarks on Wang’s unclear sexuality identity.The plot of the movie revolves around the relationship between the two characters. Wang helps Huang through a wedding planning job because she’s in no mood to finish it. Wang embarrasses Huang’s ex-boyfriend in public to get back at him for her. Wang also slaps Huang to bring her to her senses when she chases her ex’s car. Finally, Huang and Wang move in together as roommates.However, an ending with the two falling in love would be such a cliché – and that’s where the film is smart. Instead of focusing on their growing feelings for each other (if there are any), it comes back to Huang’s state of mind.After planning weddings for so many couples, Huang takes time to analyze what went wrong with her former relationship and how she should move on. More importantly, she’s not alone.At the end of the film, Wang lights up the neon sign across the office building so that Huang can “have something to look at when standing at the window”, and sends her a text message saying “I’ll always be by your side”. At this point, you might not see it as a love confession, but a flash of what “Love is not blind” means.Maybe love is not blind, as long as you open your eyes and see what really matters. Maybe love is not blind, as long as there’s someone, like Wang, who always lights up a light for you.
