Lose weight this way
Sometimes simple changes can bring about big results. When it comes to losing weight, more often than not, it’s all about numbers.It takes 3,500 calories to build 0.5 kilograms. If you have a deficit of 100 calories every day for a year – either by eating less or exercising more – you can lose 5 kilograms in a year.But going on a diet where you give up everything you love is not going to work forever.Katie Duggan, a dietitian at St. Louis University School of Public Health, says that teaching people to make small changes is often the only way to bring about results.“A lot of people want weight loss to be their New Year’s resolution,” she says. “The key is to make small changes that are reasonable, achievable and realistic to maintain.”Here we’ve come up with a list of 10 ways you can lose 5 kilograms this year.1. Switch from whole-milk to skimmed milk products. If you consume three servings a day, you can save up to 200 calories a day. That’s 10 kilograms you can lose this year.2. When you go to a restaurant, ask for half of your portion to be put in a doggie bag right away. Even if you only go out twice a week, you’ll easily save enough calories to lose 5 kilograms a year.3. Chill soups, gravies and stews, then skim off the fat that floats. Doing this can save you up to 100 calories a serving.4. Switch your afternoon soda to a diet soda to save 150 calories (per 330-milliliter can) a day.5. Learn how to add 10 minutes of exercise a day. The goal is 30 minutes a day. If you walk for just 30 minutes, you will lose 6 kilograms this year.6. Cut back on egg yolks. It’s the yolk which contains virtually all of the fat and cholesterol. In most recipes, you can use two egg whites instead of one whole egg.7. Is a tall glass of juice your morning ritual? Swap that for a real orange and you not only save more than 100 calories, but also get some fiber while you’re at it.8. Replace your regular beer with light beer and save about 50 calories per bottle.9. Take the stairs every day at work. If you go up and down often enough (say up and down five flights three or four times a day) you’ve got your 100 calories.10. Remove the skin from a chicken breast after cooking and save 100 calories each time.
