Exposed: canteen rules
Although the price of a bowl of Lanzhou noodles has soared to over 10 yuan in restaurants, you can still get a bowl for 4.5 yuan at college canteens.The government has placed strict controls on the price of dishes in college canteens. Beijing Municipal Commission of Education announced new rules in May that the price of staple dishes at college canteens must not exceed 6 yuan. Also, at least 70 percent of staple dishes should cost less than 4 yuan.However, not many students are excited about the news. Instead, many fear that portion sizes will shrink if college canteens are forbidden to raise prices to deal with increasing costs caused by the soaring Consumer Price Index (CPI). “The kitchen staff serve smaller portions though the prices are unchanged. But it’s no different from raising prices,” said Liang Zijin, a 23-year-old student at Zheijiang University.  Some students have summarized several “college canteen rules” demonstrating how stingy kitchen staff can be when they serve students. Let’s take a look at three of the rules and also see how kitchen staff respond to students’ criticisms.  Rule 1: The kitchen staff will always shake the ladle before he puts the food into your tray. Amazingly, it’s always the meat that is shaken off while the vegetables lie safely in the ladle. Yang Siqun, a member of the kitchen staff in the canteen at Beijing Institute of Fashion Technology (BIFT), explained that staff did so because they needed to give students equal portions. He admitted that he would shake off some meat when there was too much for one student. “Otherwise, there wouldn’t be any meat left for latecomers,” said Yang. So the secret in getting as much meat as possible is: be the last person in the queue. The kitchen staff will then spoon all the meat left into your tray. Rule 2: The vegetable to meat ratio in a dish is 9:1, although sometimes the top of the dish is covered by meat. The vegetables lie beneath.Yang responded that this ratio was incorrect. He revealed that the vegetable-to-meat ratio in a dish is usually 3:2 or 3:1. However, according to one of Yang’s colleagues (who refused to give his real name), it’s actually impossible to make a meat and vegetable dish using the ratio mentioned in the students’ rules. Take a dish of scrambled eggs and tomatoes, for instance.  If you don’t add enough eggs, the eggs will easily stick to the pan and burn. An anonymous chef from the University of International Business and Economics explained that meat often reduces after frying, so it may seem that there isn’t much meat in the dish. Rule 3: All molecules are in constant motion. So a bucket of water will be a bucket of red bean soup, even if there’s only one red bean in it.Du Wenbo, 19, a student of English at Xi’an Jiaotong University, bears this rule in mind when he goes to the school canteen to get free soup.  He often feels as though he is drinking plain boiled water rather than soup.  Yang Xueping, a chef from BIFT, explained that free soup is mainly for the purpose of quenching students’ thirst. Thick soups containing many ingredients would not serve this purpose. However, Du feels that the free “soup”, despite being well intentioned, serves little purpose at all when few students would like to drink the weak-tasting soup. Students’ main complaintsThe following survey asked 6,710 Chinese college students for their complaints about their college canteens:44.4% portion sizes are too small;56.5% kitchen staff always shake the ladle until there is not much food left in it;53.1% dishes taste bad, and don’t contain much seasoning.
