Romantic tips for Valentine's Day
As a festival for love and romance, Valentine’s Day provides us with a splendid opportunity to spend some quality time with our truelove. Are you looking for some tips to romance your sweetheart on this Feb 14? You’ve come to the right place then. Here are some nice romantic ideas that you can use to build the romance in your relationship with good effect on your special someone.Create a LoveSpaceA splendid idea on Valentine’s Day is to open your heart to your sweet one and let know your feelings for her. An easy way to do this would be to create a "lovespace". If you are not already registered to myspace, you can sign up for a free account and within minutes you’ll have a page dedicated to your sweetie. Keep it focused on romance with weekly love notes, romantic poems, and photos. You can even add a romantic love song that she loves very much in your ’lovespace’. That way she will get to listen to her favorite song whenever she visits the page! If you both are private persons and don’t like to let the world know about your relationship, you can sure make the page private. That way you’ll also feel free to open your heart and write about your inner feelings without a care.Make a VideoAnother splendid idea is to make a short video declaring your love for your honey. If you have a camera phone or a webcam at your disposal, you can easily make a video and upload it online in sites like YouTube for free. You can then send a link via email to him/her to check out your valentine video! If you don’t prefer a public declaration of your love, you can keep it personal and have a private viewing of your video with your sweetheart who’ll surely love the idea. Candle-lit dinnerTreat your honey to a romantic dinner by candle-light. That doesn’t mean you don’t have to take your sweetheart to a posh restaurant and spend a lotta bucks. Rather, you can arrange your own candle-lit dinner at home. Cook up a splendid dinner together. Even a simple pasta would work; buy dessert from the bakery in the grocery store. Set the table; create a romantic atmosphere with candles, sweet snacks and wine. Have soft romantic music playing in the background, and dim the lights so that it’s mostly the candles lighting the room. Then dress up and "attend" the dinner walking up to the table hand in hand with your love. You’ll be amazed how much more fun it gives to have a candle-lit dinner at home. Once dinner is over, dance slowly to your song. Then snuggle as you watch a romantic flick together.Prepare a dessertThis one is specially for the ladies. Invite your honey and treat him to a dessert dish. Find out about the favorite dessert of your partner and prepare it yourself on Valentine’s Day. Even if it doesn’t turn perfect and your cooking skills don’t prove amazing, he’ll pleasantly surprised and love you for your serious attempt.Love-letterBelieve it or not, writing love letters is still as cool. Yes, the world may have changed and e-mails and text messages may be the order of the day, but a passionate letter of love still posseses that eternal charm and out-of-the-world romanticism which many would die for. So put your pen to paper and pour your feelings out for the love of your life. Say in simple words what your sweetheart means to you, and how your life has changed since his/her arrival. Then hide it in some spot where your sweet one is likely to lay his/her hand soon. Don’t worry if you’re not too good with words, your sweetheart will surely appreciate your gesture. Your effort will culminate into a moment which both of you’ll treasure forever, trust us.
