Misconceptions persist for Westerners
Chinese people are, quite rightly, proud of their food. However, when foreigners like Britons and Americans think of Chinese food, their impression of it is different to what you might think.Growing up in the UK, the Chinese food I was used to eating was food I now recognize as being from Guangdong. For example, a typical dish I would order growing up would be pork in sweet and sour sauce, probably with some rice and spring rolls on the side. This is the type of food we generally eat because most Chinese immigrants to the UK have come from Guangdong.You can tell, because when most British people try to imitate the sound of Chinese, they actually imitate the sound of *Cantonese – hearing *Mandarin Chinese is sometimes a shock to British people who have grown up thinking it sounds completely different!British attitudes to Chinese food may be changing, though.Chinese-American chef Ken Hom has been on British TV for 30 years, and he told BBC Food: “Chinese food at the beginning of the 80s [in the UK] was sweet and sour pork, mainly. Most Brits had a very *stereotypical view of Chinese food… Now you are seeing more regional Chinese food from Sichuan, Hunan and other areas of China. It is no longer just Cantonese food.”Similarly, to most Americans, Chinese food doesn’t go too far past orange chicken and fortune cookies, but more regional cuisines are becoming successful, especially in big cities like New York.Attitudes have not quite changed completely, though. Many foreigners who live in China will be familiar with this question from a relative back at home: “Have they given you dog yet?” Yes, perhaps because people still know too little about Chinese culture, many people believe that Chinese people love to eat dog meat. And of course, some people do eat dogs, which to Americans is like “eating a member of one’s family” according to Vision Times.Also, Chinese people eat many other things people in the West do not –chicken claws, duck heads and some animals’ organs.But what do foreigners think when they come to China and taste real Chinese food? You’ll be glad to know that in my experience, the impressions have been very good.My personal favorite cuisine is Yunnan food, and every foreigner I’ve eaten it with has been amazed by the different spices and flavors when they’ve tried it.Everyone, that is, except my friend who lived in Yunnan for a year, who says she still hasn’t had “proper Yunnan food” since. That’s the problem when you finally eat real Chinese food –you become picky!
