White-collar killers
According to a nationwide survey of 3 million white-collar workers in more than 10 major cities including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, up to 76 percent of them suffer from health problems. Nearly 60 percent were found to be in an overstrained condition while less than 3 percent have a perfect bill of health.Given the facts, the Shanghai Sports Bureau announced that the most recent version of guangboticao would debut on local radio stations including AM 990 and FM 93.4 from the beginning of this year.The latest version of guangboticao is designed to improve the health conditions of white-collar workers so some adjustments have been made to cater to their needs.However a few minutes of daily exercise seems to be far from enough in curing the complicated physical problems that white-collar workers are faced with today. The Global Times has listed several typical white-collar ailments along with some possible solutions.1.Cervical spondylosis & lumbar vertebra diseaseFor office workers, cervical spondylosis and lumbar vertebra disease are two conditions that they complain about frequently. People who constantly hunch over their desks or sit still in front of a computer for long periods of time are at risk of developing these problems. Staying in one position for a long time can easily cause your muscles to become bound and exhausted and then result in pain in the cervical vertebra.The condition can cause nausea and headaches and cause one to feel a sensation of pins and needles in their scalp, arms and hands or aches in their shoulders. In the worst-case scenarios people can develop paralysis.Solution: Active movements can definitely help. After sitting for around one hour, one needs to stand up and do some exercises. The suitable small movements in a small office include extension of the neck, rotating one’s head and slowly turning the head 180 degrees. It also helps if one takes up sports, including swimming, basketball and jogging, to strengthen the muscles around the neck and waist.2.Yuppie fluMany white-collar workers constantly feel weak or run down. They might still feel tired after a good sleep or feel anxious and easily get angry. This is a case of yuppie flu, which is contagious in offices. Those who catch the flu will constantly feel fatigued.Yuppie flu is somewhat psychosomatic, but it shouldn’t be ignored as sufferers face the risk of sudden death.Solution: A campaign advocating slow movement through total lifestyle deceleration became very popular in London in 2010. Although we all have to work, it’s necessary for people today to relax and devote more time to pursuing their hobbies and tending to their families. In the meantime, a regular sufficient sleep and appropriate exercise can all help people grow immune to yuppie flu.3.XerophthalmiaXerophthalmia is a term that comes from Greek and literally means dry eyes. Most office buildings today adopt a central air-conditioning system and windows remain closed almost year round.Bad ventilation and a high concentration of computers and other electronic equipment can result in bad-quality and dry air in offices.Also staring at computer monitors for long periods of time and wearing contact lenses can exacerbate the condition. Typically, sufferers feel dry eyes and can produce few tears. But a small group of people suffer from constantly watery eyes.Solution: Aside from sufficient rest and proper eye protection, ventilation should be improved in offices with air humidification equipment. People are also recommended to use eye drops if necessary. In terms of diet, one needs to eat food rich in renieratene, vitamins and protein such as fruits and vegetables.4.Gastrointestinal disordersSome white-collar workers barely have enough time for lunch or dinner and get up too late for a regular breakfast. They might gorge themselves when they have some spare time.As a result of being unable to eat properly, some white-collar workers develop gastrointestinal conditions such as chronic gastritis and gastric ulcers.Solution: Keeping regular hours is important to staying healthy. Never eat too much at once and take a rest for around half an hour after a meal before getting back to work.
