Job stress hits students
As the job-hunting season kicks off, many grads are suffering from anxiety.Job interview results are becoming the most common conversation topic in dormitories. Worried about not getting satisfactory offers, some students have sleep problems, or lose their appetite. Some might even display symptoms of depression.According to a survey across several universities in Wuhan conducted by Wuhan Yangtze Business University, over 72 percent of student participants were worried about finding a job.Students in the first one or two years were also uneasy about their job prospects, which contributed to spreading anxiety further.Lang Lei, 22, a business major from Renmin University in Beijing, admitted having mood swings when job hunting.The student hoped to get positions with large State-owned enterprises in his hometown of Yantai, Shandong. But when it turned out that things wouldn’t be so easy, Lang became concerned.“I began to worry,” said Lang, who has now changed to more realistic goals. “Sometimes it was impossible for me to stop worrying and it become really irritating. I had to talk about it on and on with my friends.”Others feel tortured while waiting for interview results. Mo Tong, a senior software engineering major at South China Normal University, would lapse into a jittery state every time after he attended a job interview.“For a day or two I couldn’t help but keep thinking about how I performed in front of the interviewers, how well I tackled their questions, and whether they would consider giving me a chance in the end,” he said.Mo was unable to focus on other things as his apprehension grew. Often he just wanted to grab a phone to call the Human Resources Department, but he didn’t have their number.“This made me extremely desperate. Even hearing ‘No’ for an answer would have been a relief,” Mo recalled.Media reports about rising unemployment rates and a difficult job market have touched students’ nerves.“I’m alarmed by articles saying how bachelor’s degree holders are losing ground,” said Wang Hongjuan, a sophomore English major from Putian University in Fujian province. “It suggests to me that good jobs are only available to graduate or doctoral students.”As Wang has no plans to further her education, she has to commit herself to all sorts of extracurricular activities to improve her prospects. This throws her into a packed schedule.Wen Fang, a well-known education psychology expert and consultant in Beijing, advises students not to be misled by gloomy surveys and reports about the job market.“Unemployment rates are not linked to an individual’s chances of getting a job,” he said. “An individual’s chances are actually mainly determined by his or her capability.”According to Wen, a moderate degree of anxiety is normal - it can even be helpful. But if it constantly affects a student’s normal life, one should pay more attention. “Focus on adapting yourself to the needs of society, and never ever overestimate your goals,” Wen added.
