Fight for family
After watching too many Hollywood sci-fi blockbusters and animated films this year, Dearest, by Hong Kong director Peter Chan, is just what I needed: a warm, touching movie that’s free of any fuss.In Dearest, Tian Wenjun (Huang Bo) and Lu Xiaojuan (Hao Lei) is a divorced couple who pretty much have moved on with their lives. That is until the day their 3-year-old son goes missing. You can guess most of what happens for the next hour: There’s panic and tears, visits to the police station and the divorcees turning to each other again to find their son.Chan breaks away from convention by dividing the film into two parts. In the second half, audiences are taken directly to two years later, when Tian receives a tip suggesting his son has been spotted in Anhui (13 hours away by train). The film then follows how Tian and his ex-wife rationalize the decision to steal a child they believe to be theirs back from its new mother, Li Hongqin (Zhao Wei).That’s where the movie really start to get interesting, and to tug at your heartstrings with its based-on-a-true-story premise. It’s quite a daring move for Chan to withhold the film’s strongest performer, Zhao, until the midway point.Whereas the other cast members deliver great but predictable performances, Zhao brings contradictions and intrigue to her character. It’s more than impressive to see how she’s able to feed each new crying scene with slightly different emotion. Nothing is too weepy or melodramatic in her performance here.Zhao’s performance even makes up for the fact that the screenplay by Zhang Ji, who also wrote Chan’s American Dreams in China, is a little unfocused. Maybe too eager to stick to the real-life story, Zhang introduces so many characters that each ends up not being emotionally complex enough.Dearest may not be a sophisticated film, but it manages to hit audiences twice — first in the heart and later in the head. It shines a light on the ugly problem of child abduction in society, and raises intriguing questions about what authorities should do to handle this unusual situation.
