Cheap chic is ‘wasteful’
Once upon a time, fashion was glamorous models and movie stars wearing haute couture on glossy magazine covers. People saved their salaries and shopped once or twice a year for high-quality clothes that could last for many seasons.Nowadays, fashion is fast-changing and cheap thanks to retail brands such as H&M, Zara and Topshop. Fashion has become ever more accessible. But is it a good thing?US writer Elizabeth Cline doesn’t think so, although she used to be the owner of a wardrobe solely made up of cheap chic.In her recent book Overdressed: The Shockingly High Cost of Cheap Fashion, she writes: “I paid less than $30 (191 yuan) per item for each piece of clothing in my closet. Most of my shoes cost less than $15.”Altogether she has 354 pieces of clothing, accumulated in less than five years.Americans buy an average of 64 items of clothing every year, that makes Cline just an average consumer.Then one day came the epiphany. In a supermarket sale, Cline ended up buying seven pairs of identical canvas flats marked down from $15 to $7.When the shopping frenzy receded, it occurred to Cline that there was something wrong and deeply disturbing about acquiring so much cheap clothing.It didn’t bring her satisfaction. She soon got tired of the shoes and the style changed. The same went for a lot of her other clothes.The average price of clothing has dropped in recent decades. Cheap clothing is branded in such a way that it is no longer associated with lack of style.Budget fashion exemplified by the “street fashion” photos is seen as chic, practical and accessible to all. However, Cline argues that the demand for ever cheaper clothing has created mountains of waste.Americans are buying and hoarding roughly 20 billion items of clothing per year as a nation, Cline points out.“Buying so much clothing, and treating it as if it is disposable, is putting a huge toll on the environment and is simply unsustainable,” she writes.What’s more, cheap clothing destroys our relationship with our self-image. Fashion should be flexible and reflect personal taste.But global chains are trying to reduce risk by selling the same carefully packaged trends. These trends “are repeated on the racks of virtually every retailer, making our store-bought looks feel homogenous and generic,” Cline writes.Cline says that clothes could have more meaning and last longer if we think less about owning the latest or cheapest thing and develop more of a relationship with the things we wear.Though it may sound shallow, we are what we wear. Cline suggests that we build a wardrobe over time. We should pay attention to quality. She says: “Obsessing over the perfect hem, luxuriating in fabrics, and patching up our clothes have become old-fashioned habits.“But they’re also satisfying antidotes to the empty uniformity of cheap. If more of us picked up the lost art of sewing or reconnected with the tailors, we could all be our own fashion designers and constantly reinvent, personalize, and perfect the things we own.”
