A satirical look at news
In the West, the late-night talk show is a specific kind of comedy-oriented talk and variety show. It includes topical monologues in which the host makes fun of the day’s news, comedy sketches and celebrity interviews.Watching talk shows is good practice for English learners. While you might get distracted by the intricate plots of drama series, talk shows offer a chance to practice your listening and understanding of humor and the subtexts of the English language.In the following issues, 21st Century will introduce several popular talk shows. You can get a flavor of the hosts’ wit and humor.The following segments of The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, which airs on Comedy Central television, demonstrate the satire, criticism, and humor in the host’s commentaries.1. Jon Stewart celebrated the end of the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, which came to an end last Monday. The repeal means that gay men and women can serve openly in the armed forces, and that the 13,000 soldiers who were discharged under “don’t ask, don’t tell” can re-enlist.Jon Stewart: That’s how ridiculous this policy was–the apology for the affront is, ‘Alright, sorry, you can go to Afghanistan and fight for your country.’By the way, they’re lucky with the gay people that they discharged from the army–only gay people would remain in good enough shape to be able to re-enlist.2. After Osama bin Laden was killed, US President Barack Obama made a national speech on TV.Video clip: [Barack Obama: Tonight, I can report to the American people and to the world, that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden…]Jon Stewart: As an American, as a New Yorker, you felt like the news couldn’t get any better … and then, it did.[Obama: Today, at my direction, the United States launched a targeted operation against that compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.]Jon Stewart: What? Not only did we kill Bin Laden, we killed him in Abbottabad? Abbottabad sounds like a name most New Yorkers would have invented for the fictional place they would have loved to kill Bin Laden. Abbottabad. A-bbo-tta-bad.[News anchor: As satisfied as we are right now, we also realize that this increases threats to the United States… In the short term, there will be some kind of revenge attack…]Jon Stewart: Yeah, we shouldn’t have killed him. Now the terrorists want to attack us. But you know what, even when they do, you know who won’t see it? Bin Laden–because we shot out his eyes and now he lives in a pineapple under the sea.3. Months before Apple’s iPhone 4 was out, a prototype used by an Apple product designer was “stolen” in a bar by an editor for the tech-news website Gizmodo.com.Video clip: [News anchor: A high-tech crime investigation team goes to this guy’s house – the editor of Gizmodo, bashes in his front door while he’s having dinner.]Jon Stewart: The cops had to bash in this guy’s door? Don’t they know there’s an app for that?…Apple, you guys were the rebels, the underdogs, and people believed in you. Now look into the mirror, man. Or, actually just look into the screen of the iPad before you turn it on–it’s surprisingly reflective, it’s really beautiful. (murmuring) Thank you so much for making this. It wasn’t supposed to be this way. Microsoft was supposed to be the evil one.…So come on, Steve, chill out with the paranoid corporate genius stuff, just chill, baby. (murmuring again) And, you know your new iPhone with the front camera and video chat, could you send me one of those? It looks totally sick.
