8 most beautiful island countries in the world
There are a few gorgeous island countries in the world that are definitely worth vising. While there are many fascinating countries in the world to visit, I think there is something more adventurous, exotic and romantic about visiting an island country. Take a look at the list of 7 breathtakingly beautiful island countries in the world, which everyone should certainly visit at least once in lifetime.MaltaMalta is a beautiful southern European country in the Mediterranean Sea, which has a rich history and culture. There are amazing sky-high cliffs to climb, fabulous temples to explore, mysterious hidden coves, and lots of wonderful places to go scuba diving. In fact, there are plenty of interesting things to see and to do in Malta and this island country has something for everyone. The historic part of Malta has incredible architecture, great walled cities, and many underground tunnels to explore.The PhilippinesOne of the most beautiful and best island countries in the world is the Philippines. It’s actually a geographically gorgeous place worth vising any time of the year. The Philippines contain over 7,000 islands, and all of them are beautiful and unique in their own way. There are many wonderful tourist attractions including the Tubbataha Reef, Mayon Volcano, Banaue Rice Terraces, Puerto Galera, Donsol, the Chocolate Hills and many more. The country also offers plenty of interesting activities for you to experience, such as diving, climbing, camping, hiking, bird watching and many others.AustraliaAustralia is an amazing continental, island country, which everyone should visit at least once in life. It’s often identified as mega diverse country as it boasts a rich culture, fantastic wildlife, nice people, and a plethora of fun and interesting things to see and to do. Australia has literally everything, from the spectacular beaches, canyons, to breathtaking green forests to explore.The MaldivesNot only is the Maldives one of the most beautiful island countries, it is also one of the most popular honeymoon destinations. Situated in the middle of the Indian Ocean, the Maldives is made up of an entire series of incredible ancient coral reefs that grew up along the sides of ancient volcanoes. There is a magnificent ocean, with fascinating beaches and luxury resorts. If you are looking for the best honeymoon destination, the Maldives will be perfect for you.CubaUnfortunately, many people don’t even think of visiting Cuba these days. However, Cuba is a charming island country that boasts the clear blue waters, the white sandy beaches, the best coral reefs in the world, the small shops and numerous attractions. This country has a rich culture and history to explore. And if you like to scuba dive or snorkel, Cuba should be number one on your travel bucket list. Cuba is the closest island to North America, so why not visit it this year?FijiFiji is a fabulous island that has plenty of surprises for any adventurous traveler. There is one of the world’s best surf scenes, and many surfing enthusiasts travel to Fiji yearly to ride the great waves. Well, if surfing is not for you and you love sitting on the beach and relaxing or hiking, seeing breathtaking waterfalls, Fiji is certainly the best island country to visit.JapanI’m sure there’s no other place on the planet like Japan. It’s an island country where East meets West, the cultures do not clash, and where you will never feel bored. You will fill up on ramen, sushi, experience different culture, go hiking in the spectacular hills, and don’t forget to visit Tokyo. Tokyo’s bars, restaurants, pubs, and clubs are busy each night of the week. If you are a true shopaholic, Japan is a must visit place for you.There are a few gorgeous island countries in the world that are definitely worth vising. While there are many fascinating countries in the world to visit, I think there is something more adventurous, exotic and romantic about visiting an island country. Take a look at the list of 7 breathtakingly beautiful island countries in the world, which everyone should certainly visit at least once in lifetime.MaltaMalta is a beautiful southern European country in the Mediterranean Sea, which has a rich history and culture. There are amazing sky-high cliffs to climb, fabulous temples to explore, mysterious hidden coves, and lots of wonderful places to go scuba diving. In fact, there are plenty of interesting things to see and to do in Malta and this island country has something for everyone. The historic part of Malta has incredible architecture, great walled cities, and many underground tunnels to explore.The PhilippinesOne of the most beautiful and best island countries in the world is the Philippines. It’s actually a geographically gorgeous place worth vising any time of the year. The Philippines contain over 7,000 islands, and all of them are beautiful and unique in their own way. There are many wonderful tourist attractions including the Tubbataha Reef, Mayon Volcano, Banaue Rice Terraces, Puerto Galera, Donsol, the Chocolate Hills and many more. The country also offers plenty of interesting activities for you to experience, such as diving, climbing, camping, hiking, bird watching and many others.AustraliaAustralia is an amazing continental, island country, which everyone should visit at least once in life. It’s often identified as mega diverse country as it boasts a rich culture, fantastic wildlife, nice people, and a plethora of fun and interesting things to see and to do. Australia has literally everything, from the spectacular beaches, canyons, to breathtaking green forests to explore.The MaldivesNot only is the Maldives one of the most beautiful island countries, it is also one of the most popular honeymoon destinations. Situated in the middle of the Indian Ocean, the Maldives is made up of an entire series of incredible ancient coral reefs that grew up along the sides of ancient volcanoes. There is a magnificent ocean, with fascinating beaches and luxury resorts. If you are looking for the best honeymoon destination, the Maldives will be perfect for you.CubaUnfortunately, many people don’t even think of visiting Cuba these days. However, Cuba is a charming island country that boasts the clear blue waters, the white sandy beaches, the best coral reefs in the world, the small shops and numerous attractions. This country has a rich culture and history to explore. And if you like to scuba dive or snorkel, Cuba should be number one on your travel bucket list. Cuba is the closest island to North America, so why not visit it this year?FijiFiji is a fabulous island that has plenty of surprises for any adventurous traveler. There is one of the world’s best surf scenes, and many surfing enthusiasts travel to Fiji yearly to ride the great waves. Well, if surfing is not for you and you love sitting on the beach and relaxing or hiking, seeing breathtaking waterfalls, Fiji is certainly the best island country to visit.JapanI’m sure there’s no other place on the planet like Japan. It’s an island country where East meets West, the cultures do not clash, and where you will never feel bored. You will fill up on ramen, sushi, experience different culture, go hiking in the spectacular hills, and don’t forget to visit Tokyo. Tokyo’s bars, restaurants, pubs, and clubs are busy each night of the week. If you are a true shopaholic, Japan is a must visit place for you.GreeceGreece is a beautiful country, known for its long history and its clean beaches. The country consists of over 1,400 islands and islets, however only 169 of them are actually inhabited. These Greek islands are the most popular and visited Greek destinations, especially during the summer months. Mykonos island, Santorini island, Crete island, Corfu island are among the best Greek islands to visit. If you’re a history junkie, there are many archaeological and historical sites you can visit in Greece, which gloriously depict the past of the country.
