Hairdos give true self away
Forget wearing your heart on your sleeve. It’s your hair that reveals what you’re really like.Someone with glossy hair like the Duchess of Cambridge is likely wealthy enough to afford a professional blow-dry, while someone with a fringe like Emma Stone in The Amazing Spider-Man series leaves an amicable impression on others. So, what does your choice of hairstyle say about you? Read on to find out.High ponytailIf you want to show your goal-oriented side, go for a high ponytail. People with this hairstyle tend to be results-driven and logical, according to Jean Haner, a US expert in face reading who wrote The Wisdom of Your Face.When she first came out as an actress, Li Bingbing’s looks were often described as fragile and feminine, partly because of her long locks. But now, her polished high ponytail has convinced everyone that she is unstoppable and will go to any lengths to achieve her goals.Straighten your curly hairWavy hair is attractive to many. But if you have curly hair and all you want to do is straighten it, this usually means your life is too chaotic and you need to calm down.US singer Taylor Swift is a perfect example of this kind. Long curly hair used to be her signature look, but recently she has been flat ironing her hair quite often. By making it straight, she’s controlling its intensity and giving herself a sense of calmness, according to Cosmopolitan magazine. She may have decided to enjoy herself for a moment after all the ups and downs in her love life.Curl your straight hairWant to have more fun in your life? Curly hair may give you away. For those who have straight hair that is always curled, it can mean they’re craving for a more interesting life. The theory is that curly hair is more interesting than straight hair and will lead to more exciting experiences.If you don’t believe it, take US singer Beyonce Knowles’ case as an example. Her curly hairdo presents a more positive and fun image to the world.Short wash-and-goIf you have a super short wash-and-go hairstyle, you must be super confident and don’t fuss over things in life.Miley Cyrus is one of those types. Long gone are the days when she was the lovely Disney star who had long wavy strands. Now she has a super short wash-and-go hairdo that is as rebellious as her personality. As she told E! Online, by keeping her hair short, she is speaking on behalf of girls everywhere, breaking the stereotype of more traditional hairstyles.
