Embracing new challenges
In Western culture, 21 was the age at which young people traditionally received a key to their parents’ door, as a symbol of entering adulthood.Now, the age of 21 is a time when people ask themselves: where do I go from here?Jiang Fangzhou’s 21 years have been filled with the kind of success most young people wouldn’t dare hope for in a lifetime. She published her first book at the age of nine and has written many more since then.She is regarded as a spokesperson for her generation. However, her hopes and concerns for the future appear decidedly normal.Not that Jiang herself sees it that way. The pressures that she feels as a 21-year-old are fairly abstract, while the worries of her peers are more to do with practical issues.She explains that while her fellow students are chiefly concerned with getting a job or buying an apartment, she frets over how she can excel in her work despite having little experience of the world.“Over the past 10 years what I lacked was not skills, but the ability to perceive society,” says Jiang. “Having lived in China for so long, I’m worried many of my values are not objective anymore. They might have been *assimilated, or compromised, by my surroundings.”However, Jiang, now a senior at the School of Journalism and Communication of Tsinghua University, notes that her peers face intense pressure and competition at school. They are expected to excel in their field of study despite limited experience, just as Jiang is expected to shine in the literary world. Although Jiang believes this level of pressure means young people in China have never “*reveled, been *hippies or lived a bohemian lifestyle”, she notes that young Chinese live in an exciting time; in an era in which social transformation is occurring and in which “possibilities arise and roll on with full force”. Young people, she says, have been forced to open their eyes to the world around them. Jiang’s world has opened up, too. She’s more at ease with herself at 21, compared with when she began college.“My horizon has broadened and I’m more tolerant,” she says. “As a freshman, I was desperate. I stopped people around me and asked: ‘Is there anything in the world still worth hoping for?’ But now I don’t do that.”Jiang says that she may not pursue writing as her main future career because she wants to try “other lifestyles” – overseas travel and study touring sound particularly inviting to her. But she is concerned that many foreigners have skewed perceptions about China.“A few days ago I overheard a conversation between two foreigners sitting next to me on a flight,” says Jiang. “They were having a heated discussion about the number of beggars in China. And how Chinese always go for ‘petty profits’. In fact, they had been in China for only a week.”Jiang believes prejudice is inevitable, but she also maintains that Chinese and Westerners, for example, share much common ground.“We share the same principles, such as integrity and a willingness to help others,” says Jiang. “The differences between peoples are not that huge.”
