Frame your eyes with style
American movie star Jack Nicholson once said, “With my sunglasses on, I’m Jack Nicholson. Without them, I’m fat and 60.” Sunglasses are no longer something you only wear in summertime. They can make a fashion statement year-round.Yet, the “in” way to wear a pair of sunglasses is a bit different this year. The Fashion Week shows in New York, London, Milan and Paris all featured eccentric and geeky beauty, which puts “an increasing emphasis on individuality”, wrote Catherine Piercy on Vogue magazine. And eyewear is essential to complete the look.GeometricDon’t panic when you see the word “geometric” because it has nothing to do with your mathematics classes. This type of sunglasses boasts geometric frames with straight lines and defined angles, in shapes such as rectangles, pentagons and even hexagons.These shades are best paired with oval faces. “The mid-bridge of these sunglasses helps to balance the length of the oval face shape, and the large shape adds width to the face,” Laura Morland from Vision Express, a British optical products retailer, told Cosmopolitan magazine.These frames don’t go well with square faces, since they might exaggerate the wearer’s strong jawbones.Cat-eye and round framesCat-eye frames are considered sexier and distinctly feminine. Even people with square faces can wear them, because “they place emphasis on the eyes and the rounded bottom softens the jawline”, Morland told Cosmopolitan.By contrast, round frames create a hipster effect. They are “a nostalgic wink to older decades’ conceptions of its shape”, according to The Trend Spotter.When the two shapes are combined, you get a little bit of both effects – the vintage and the modern, the feminine and the eccentric all in one.OversizedPeople’s reactions toward oversized sunglasses can be polarized. “Some people think they’re fun and funky, and some people think they’re over-the-top and ridiculous,” says People magazine style director Susan Kaufman. But the whole idea behind these “ultra-large shades” is that “they’re super-exaggerated”.The risk of sporting a pair of oversized sunglasses is that they might “drown your face”, wrote The Chic Fashionista. They can be so big that they attract people’s full attention when they look at your face.But the flip side is that they might help people with bigger, rounder faces by making their faces look smaller and slimmer in comparison.
