Style goes green this season
Thinking of adding some new items to your wardrobe? Make sure to choose something green if you want to stay ahead of trends.On Dec 9, the Pantone Color Institute, a US-based global provider of professional color standards for design industries, picked “greenery”, a shade of medium-*lime green, as its color of the year for 2017. The company defines greenery as “a fresh and zesty yellow-green shade that evokes the first days of spring when nature’s greens revive, restore and renew”.In a world of rapidly booming technology, Pantone hopes to reconnect people with nature. “We need a break. We need to stop and breathe... [Greenery] is about unity and community, connecting to oneself and others and a higher purpose – nature,” Laurie Pressman, the Pantone Color Institute’s vice president, told Forbes magazine.Coincidently or not, the color greenery, similar to *chartreuse, was quite *conspicuous on the runways of the 2017 spring/summer fashion shows. Many *reputable brands, including Gucci, Kenzo, Valentino and Balenciaga, have featured the color in their latest looks. Balenciaga used it for a *horticulture-themed jumpsuit, Louis Vuitton used it as a base for an *asymmetrical trouser suit, while Etro featured it in a bohemian collection.As green is not a widely worn color, some may wonder how they might *integrate it into their style rotation. Australia-based Anna Lapira, fashion retailer Sussan’s apparel and *accessories buying manager, suggests pairing greenery with *neutral colors such as *beige, brown and white. Designer Kara Liu, also based in Australia, expands on this advice, telling The Sydney Morning Herald: “I think it will work well as a color injection and layering element in *monochrome outfits, in the forms of simple, *minimalist pieces such as a long-sleeve skivvy or a mini skirt.”And for those who simply aren’t fans of green garb, you needn’t be left out of the style loop. US writer Amanda Grace suggests on lifestyle site Hello Giggles to feature greenery eyeshadow in your palette if you’re looking to turn heads on the approaching New Year’s Eve. Many brands are also ready to release a collection of greenery nail polish, as well as accessories like sunglasses and earrings. But perhaps the easiest way to enjoy the color of nature is to simply put a pot plant in your office or bedroom – perfect for those who aren’t ready to “go green” just yet.
