A bleeping cultural gap
Readers beware: This article contains strong language.When we learn a foreign language or culture, curse words are particularly fascinating. So try to answer this question: Who tends to use curse words more often in daily life – Americans or Brits?If you think the answer is the easy-going, casual Americans rather than the reserved Brits with a stiff upper lip, then think again.According to a recent BBC article, it is the British who seem far less squeamish about swearing than Americans. Brits, explains the article, are more likely to link coarse language with a sense of humor than with rudeness or vulgarity.Brits like to use insults among friends. It’s fairly common for a Briton to tease a friend of either sex by calling them a moron or the four-lettered c-word (associated with the female anatomy), which is so strong and offensive that it is considered a taboo like the n-word (a racial slur for African Americans) in the US.Ruth Margolis, writing for BBC blog Mind the Gap: A Brit’s Guide to Surviving America, has an explanation for this: “Brits exchange jovial insults because we’re too uptight and emotionally stunted to say how we really feel. The stronger your friendship, the more you can lay into each other and still come away with warm feelings.”But this is not how Americans roll, warns Margolis. “Tell your US pal he’s a moron or anything stronger, and you likely won’t get invited to his wedding.”If you are a fan of US movies and TV shows, you probably get the impression that Americans swear a lot. The 2014 movie The Wolf of Wall Street, for example, drops a total of 506 F-bombs in just 179 minutes. In real life, however, Americans are quite prudish when it comes to using strong language. They may swear, but sometimes replace words with less offensive ones or euphemisms. “Gosh darn it!”, “What the dickens?” and “What the flood/duck?” are just a few examples. As a result, swearing retains more of its shock value, says the BBC article.The difference between swearing in the US and the UK doesn’t stop here. Brits also have a larger vocabulary of curse words, words that Americans don’t usually use. “Bugger”, used to express frustration, is one example. The word has an ugly history and was originally associated with sodomy. Like the F-bomb, “bugger” can be used in a lot of situations. “Bugger off” means “leave me alone” or “go away”. “I’ll be buggered” and “bugger me” both express surprise and astonishment. A similar example is the word “sod”. If you hear someone say “sod off” (“get lost”), there is a chance that he or she hails from the UK.
