Stylish scarves
Like it or not, sweater weather is here. But when the temperature drops, a fashion lover’s best friend is always his or her scarf. The *versatile accessory comes in limitless choices of length and colors – so many that you can choose a different one to transform each look. And if you’re looking for some inspiration this season, take a look at the latest scarf trends with our suggestions below.Puff it upWhen styling yourself for the autumn/winter season, the type of scarf you choose should be one of the first things on the list. According to US fashion site Fashionisers, *puffer scarves could be this season’s most important purchase. This style has appeared in Iceberg’s and Chanel’s autumn and winter collections, and *Georgian fashion designer Demna Gvasalia has featured the scarf in his new creations for Balenciaga. By offering up this new option, the fashion world proves that there is still innovation to be had in the world of scarves, not “some plus and minus operations and that’s all”, commented Fashionisers.Pick a paletteAfter choosing your style, it’s time to decide on a color. Charlie Ross, who runs a fashion blog called The Swatch Book, suggests *saffron, honey, red and *indigo blue as the trendiest colors of autumn/winter 2016.According to Ross, Chanel and Stella McCartney highlight honey and saffron in their latest designs, while rich reds, like scarlet and tomato, dominated the runways of Chanel, Monique Lhuillier and Nina Ricci this year.Indigo blue, on the other hand, was featured in many collections, including those of Antonio Berardi and Temperley London. The color is “a new, refreshing neutral on the fashion scene this season”, wrote Ross on her blog.Wear it your wayYou may wonder if there are any other ways to wear a scarf other than the obvious way of wrapping it around your neck, but how you choose to style your new purchase can ensure you get the most *mileage out of it. Experiment with different ways of tying–from the French knot to the rolled loop–to find the look to match your *ensemble. “You can even use a scarf for a belt, which may make the trend work for you in a completely new and distinct way,” advises The Urban Twist magazine.
