Warm up to romance this winter
With frightful December weather approaching, your date ideas will have to get a bit more creative. You may not be able to grab drinks on a patio or have a picnic at the park anymore, but we’ve come up with fun, inexpensive options to keep your social life humming along no matter how low the temperature dips. Take a break from the classic dinner and a movie routine with one of these original ideas.Fun activities to shareVisit the deep seaYou don’t have to completely forget about summer in cold winter days. Embark on an exotic adventure with a visit to the aquarium. Aquariums are romantic because of the dim lighting and dreamy seascapes.Go to improveWatching comedy is a fun way to get away from the cold and bond over cheap laughs. In small improv troupes, comedians are given ridiculous scenarios to act out on the spot.See a local band neither of you knowIt’s common knowledge that including anything rock ’n’ roll on your date makes you look cooler. And if the performance fits your taste, great. If not, research shows people develop feelings for each other more quickly when they have a mutual dislike in common. So it’s a win-win.Be bookwormsHit up the library or a bookstore. Show each other your favorite books from your childhood. Read some of your all-time favorite passages. It’s the best way to learn about your partner’s interests.Cozy indoor datesStage your own film festivalIt’s cliché to watch a film at a cinema, and who hasn’t already had a movie marathon at home? Why not make a standard movie night a little more interesting by adding a theme to the mix: favorite movie couple, favorite movie that’s so bad it’s good, scariest movie ever made ... you get the idea. Each of you picks your top contender, and then you can flip for who goes first.Comfort cookingCold weather calls for comfort food and, luckily, making soup can be a great date idea that doesn’t require much culinary skill. Make the soup from scratch or buy a bunch of frozen beans, corn and carrots and other veggies, and dump them in the pot. Either way, you’ll have something to do together that’s not too challenging, and a lovely soup dinner to look forward to.
