Go short this summer
Changing a hairstyle can be a tricky process, but some people master it very well, like The Hunger Games star Jennifer Lawrence, for instance. From her signature long, blond hair to super-short pixie cut and to the recent bob style, she makes transitioning between different hairstyles look easy.With summer on its way, a short haircut is a good option for a change. If you want to give it a try but don’t know where to start, get some inspiration from the following trendy short hairstyles this season.Bob cutThis is definitely a classic hairstyle and the bob never goes out of fashion. Many styles are derived from it constantly. The classic bob ends just below the chin. The asymmetric bob can add volume to your hair and create an illusion of fuller, bouncier hair.This season, two bob styles are popular. One is the messy and unstructured bob, which ends at the chin or just below it. The other is the “demi-bob”, a new name for the long bob popularized by Vogue magazine. This style falls anywhere to between mid-neck and shoulder length.In general, anyone with a nice jawline and neck will look good in a bob. But for those with a round face, it’s better to choose longer bobs.Pixie cutWith short hair at the back but a little more length at the front, this style is almost like a boy cut with spiky hair at the front for different styling. Originated from well-known British actress Audrey Hepburn, it was popularized by American actress Mia Farrow in the 1960s.The traditional pixie cut is short all over, but the modern ones tend to be choppy and texturized.As for face types, it suits women with heart-shaped, square or oval faces. It’s also suitable for round faces, but remember to keep the bangs long and style them forward or up to create the illusion of length.Modernized shagWhen it comes to the shag, you may think of rocker girls with messy, choppy ends and lots of layers around the crown. Well, that’s the shag of the past.Today, the modern shag hairstyle is not quite as layered as before. American singer Dianna Agron and model Karlie Kloss both give us a great example of the modern shag hairstyle. The unisex look, ease of styling and creative variations have ensured its lasting popularity.A shaggy haircut creates a nice frame for all face types. It usually draws attention to the forehead, with a strong emphasis on the front of the face. Using salt spray or texturizing spray and scrunching your hair can help create a better look.PompadourYou may be impressed by US singer Miley Cyrus’ haircut that reminds us of a rooster’s comb. Well, that’s what a pompadour looks like. This hairstyle is named after the mistress of King Louis XV, Madame de Pompadour, who wore her hair swept high up off the face. Also known as the quiff or the faux hawk, it is a hot trend from 2013 that features shaved sides and a puffy teased top.To try this hairstyle, you need some coverage. This cut is “more about attitude than your face shape”, according to well-known US stylist Matt Fugate.
