Somewhere to turn in time
On the east side of the Mediterranean Sea, massive wild fires rage across a coastal city. The *blaze causes around 60,000 residents to flee and leaves thousands of firefighters battling the *rampant flames.This isn’t a scene from an apocalyptic Hollywood movie. It was a devastating fire that spread across Israel’s third-largest city, Haifa two weeks ago.International residents were left *scrambling, trying to figure how to get out of the fire-stricken city by contacting overseas relatives. The Chinese embassy in Israel *sprung into action, successfully *evacuating and resettling 159 Chinese students from the University of Haifa.Those evacuees were later being offered food, drinks and accommodation in a hotel. Jia Xinglong, one of the rescued students, later made a post on social media. “I am *indebted to my motherland. I feel grateful as a Chinese,” he said.Rewind to earlier last month when a magnitude-7.5 earthquake hit Christchurch, New Zealand. The Chinese consulate rented helicopters and evacuated 126 Chinese tourists from the disaster areas.“The Chinese government is the only foreign government that has organized evacuation, which has been quite a relief for us,” Li Wei, one of the earthquake’s last evacuees, told the Xinhua News Agency.The efficient consular protection offered by the government gained *accolades from overseas Chinese, and stirred up an online *sensation domestically praising the domineering power of the Chinese passport.Those are two examples of how the Chinese government manages to protect its nationals with effective consular services.This July, more than 200 Chinese nationals were successfully evacuated from the conflict-hit South Sudan. Last year, when the security situation worsened in Yemen, China redirected its warships on anti-piracy *escort missions in the Gulf of Aden to evacuate 613 Chinese citizens from the war-torn Middle Eastern country.China has committed to, “weave a full-time ‘safety net’ that spans the globe to make sure our *compatriots receive timely consular protection and service from the motherland wherever they are,” said Foreign Minister Wang Yi in a statement.Continuous improvementProtecting its nationals is not the only factor in China’s consular service. “The increasing complexity of security overseas has, to some extent, contributed to the boom in China’s consular assistance service,” Li Wei told China Daily. Li is an anti-terrorism studies researcher at the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations.This year, the foreign ministry is expected to launch a system of “emergency” consular *liaison volunteers to keep refining China’s consular services. The program aims to help Chinese citizens in the first instance if they encounter difficulties abroad.The Chinese government has made continuous headlines and has the responsibility of assisting its citizens when they are in danger or facing problems. But consular protection is by no means unlimited, and will never go beyond the framework of law.“Our government, embassies and consulates, cannot work beyond the law,” Yin Fei, an inspector with the Beijing Government’s Foreign Affairs Office, told China Radio International. “We can help you, but cannot *exempt you from legal punishment or compensation.”
