How to survive an office job
Learning how to deal with office politics is like walking through a minefield. A mixture of personalities and working styles can make it difficult at times to determine exactly what kind of office behavior is appropriate.According to a survey organized by China Youth Daily, more than 89.7 percent of participants said they are confused about the sophisticated relationships in an office setting. More than half of them find it difficult to judge what is an appropriate way of behaving when dealing with supervisors.“In order to create a happy and more productive working environment, you must learn how to behave right,” said Hou Zhendong, an HR manager at General Electric in Beijing. “That’s one of the most important skills for surviving an office job.“Good office behavior encourages positive interaction between employees and employers, business partners and clients, and among co-workers.”Long Yujiao, 22, who was named Best Newbie at BYD Auto Co Ltd in Shenzhen last year, learned to form small good habits, such as being clean, orderly and punctual.“A newcomer in an organization is usually the most monitored and observed ‘entity’,” said Long. “It’s important to create the right impression. You shouldn’t let others catch on to your shortcomings.”Office gossip is another hazard. Ke Donghong, 24, a cameraman at a media company in Shenzhen, didn’t know whether to participate in the gossip when smoking with his colleagues outside.“They criticized the company leaders and complained about their low salaries. I didn’t know what to say,” said Ke. “But if I didn’t join in, they might think I’m not in the same boat as them.”Tu Xu, an HR manager at Procter & Gamble’s Guangzhou branch, advises new employees to keep their mouth shut. “Talking about your co-workers behind their backs is unprofessional and can cause serious problems,” she said.“Behave toward your colleagues in the office as you would want them to behave toward you. Imagine how you would feel if you heard your co-workers gossiping about you.” The most important principle is to remember that the boss is the boss. And there’s still more order below that.“Companies are interested in their new employees,” said Zhang Tingwen, an HR expert at ChinaHR.com. “If a boss can discover your strengths, he or she can make use of your talents in the right way.”According to Zhang, playing by the office rules can create a favorable impression. Never go over your superiors’ heads without consulting them first.A new employee needs to be willing to accept challenges and extra responsibilities. “Prove your worth by adopting a can-do attitude,” said Hou. “Giving credit to others will make you look cooperative.”
