New year, new look, new you
Back to campus doesn’t just mean hitting the bookstores, electronic markets and gadget shops. It also means “back to style”. Time to update your wardrobe!It’s worthwhile making a trip to town. A few essentials with the major trend elements of 2012 will work just as well.Here, 21st Century gives you some ideas for your first-day outfit.Preppy BlazerPreppy jackets or blazers are essential for fashion-conscious boys and girls alike. A blazer is a great clothing item as it shields you from cold and rainy weather without sacrificing style: a school-uniform style blazer retains and energizes your youthful look; a university badge can make it shine; and dark colors will complement your skin tone.Pleated skirtsPleated skirts are key for this season and will create ripples among your fashionable peers by making you look breezy.They don’t necessarily need to project a school-girl image, but can look sophisticated with long sleeve shirts. They also make a good choice for job interviews by sending a fashion conscious message to your future employer.You can also go for the street-style by wearing them with a T-shirt or spicing things up with black knee-socks.White lace shirtsA dainty lace dress will set you apart from the crowd. It makes one radiate with glamour and charm. It can also produce a special chemistry with a white shirt.Despite its simplicity, a white shirt can speak a lot about your personal style. You can combine it and accessorize it in different ways, such as by adding a necklace, or a masculine tie. The only thing you need is imagination and some courage.Cashmere sweatersFor young men, cashmere sweaters have always been a fashion staple. Going well with collared shirts, polos and T-shirts, there really is little that they do not complement.As they are available in a range of colors and styles, they are just as appropriate at a formal student meeting as they are at social events, outings or even for casual dorm wear. A cashmere sweater projects a good taste for quality clothing and lifestyle.Time to make an impression, so don’t be shy!Cambridge Satchels street-styleIf you want to turn heads in a lecture hall or at a party on campus, you’ll need one of these eye-catching handbags.The fluorescent update on the classic leather schoolbag has taken the fashion world by storm.The laptop-sized bag features an adjustable shoulder-strap and a top handle. By undoing the double metal-buckle on the front you’ll find it spacious enough to store items such as your key chain, notebook and wallet.Its fluorescent color and structured shape will give your daytime look a zippy finish.Stylish shoulder-backpacksShoulder-backpacks are back in fashion this year and you’ll need a bright colored or statement-making one to stand out. Riveted styles, skulls or flowery patterns are good choices.You could go for a hip, green backpack to get rid of eco-guilt, such as one made of recycled material, such as water bottles.High-top wedge sneakersDo you love high-heels but fear walking a long way in them to attend class??If so, high-top wedge sneakers are the answer. They are a heel and sport hybrid, providing the perfect middle ground for today’s chic youth.These sneakers make your legs look longer, but are comfortable enough to walk any distance on campus.Cowgirl/cowboy bootsOne of the coolest styles in footwear are cowgirl or cowboy boots. They easily show off your personality as they come in a variety of styles and colors.Fashion-savvy students love these boots, which sit above the ankle and below the knee. They combine well with casual dress, jeans, or shorts in autumn, so are very flexible. You can decide for yourself what works best.
