Making up for nothing
Women put on makeup to make themselves more attractive. But a recent campaign in the UK suggests a bare face may be the best look for women.The online campaign was launched in March by charity organization Cancer Research UK, reported The Telegraph. It asked women to post selfies without wearing makeup. The idea behind it was that by removing their makeup, the women exposed their vulnerable, real selves, thereby visually expressing how cancer can destroy a person’s life.The campaign was a huge success, raising millions in donations, and #nomakeupselfie has since been trending on social media, with men and women alike commenting on how beautiful these bare-faced women look in their photos.Researchers Alex Jones at Bangor University and Robin Kramer at Aberdeen University in the UK were intrigued by the responses. They wanted to find out if we were wrong about the perceptions created by makeup.They recruited a group of women in their 20s and photographed them after they had just washed their faces. They then gave them a range of foundations, lipsticks, mascaras and blushers, and told them to apply the products as if they were going out to a party.Then, with the help of a software package, the researchers created a sequence of 21 images of each model with varying degrees of makeup on.The researchers then asked another group of participants, including men and women, to browse through the images and stop when they found the images most attractive.Wrong judgmentThe results were clear, wrote Jones on The Conversation, an online forum: “Both women and men found faces with up to 40 percent less makeup than the models applied themselves the most attractive, showing a clear agreement on their opinions for cosmetics. Less was simply better.“However, when they considered the preferences of others, the women and men in our study indicated that they thought other people found more cosmetics more attractive, and this was especially true when considering the preferences of other men.”This couldn’t be further from the truth. The men in Jones’ study consistently chose less makeup as more attractive. Interestingly, they thought other men wanted the women to be wearing more makeup, even when they themselves didn’t.“The take-home message from this research is that our ideas about what the opposite sex find attractive are generally inaccurate,” Jones wrote. “These misconceptions have roots in serious psychological illnesses, and the media intensifies some of these. Perhaps images of models with airbrushed skin textures contributed to the apparent overuse of makeup in the study, though I can only speculate on that.”So ladies, before you paint your eyes a shade darker, pause to think if you are making up for non-existent ideals.
