Genre’s popularity grows
Xie Yaojun, 20, was first introduced to the suspense novels of Japanese writer Higashino Keigo (东野圭吾) after he graduated from senior middle school. Once he started reading, he found himself strongly drawn to Keigo’s “curt and right-to-the-point” language.Xie, now a student at the Guangdong University of Petrochemical Technology, was also impressed by Keigo’s ability to weave diverse clues into a single story. Into The White Night (《白夜行》) and The Devotion of Suspect X (《嫌疑人X的献身》) are two of his favorites.When Xie expresses his love for suspense novels, he speaks for a lot of his peers across the country.According to the 2015 college library statistics compiled by the Ministry of Education, the readership of suspense novels has seen a visible increase. At Tsinghua University, for example, of the top 10 literary books that were borrowed most frequently, three are suspense novels. Just two years ago, in 2014, there was only one on the list.Film adaptationsThis obvious boost in popularity may have something to do with the fact that several well-known Japanese suspense novels will be or were recently adapted into films. For example, an adaptation of Japanese writer Shizuko Natsuki’s Invisible Face (《看不见的脸》) started shooting in 2015. The production of Keigo’s The Miracle in the Grocery Store (《解忧杂货店》) is also scheduled to start filming this year.Thrillers and mystery novels have always had a special appeal for young readers. For them, it’s a window into the mysterious world of human nature.Wei Ran, an 18-year-old student at the Beijing Institute of Petrochemical Technology, is a fan of British crime novelist Agatha Christie. “I like the process of reading, because I ponder, reason and collaborate with the author,” she said.Shan Shan, 19, from Jimei University in Fujian, said she reads Christie to “observe the shifting mental states of the characters and peek at the darker side of human nature”.Her opinion is shared by Mark Rubinstein, the author of several US thrillers. He says that by reading suspense stories, readers get to experience a variety of strong emotions – greed, lust and revenge – without really putting themselves in the dangerous and intense situations.“We can live it through a character’s experiences, not [our] own. That makes it tolerable – even enjoyable. We can pull back from the tension or horror anytime we want,” Rubinstein wrote in The Huffington Post.
