Chinese stories popular abroad
Many Chinese web novels are interesting and imaginative. But has it ever occurred to (想到) you that they could help people stop using drugs (毒品), too?Kevin Cazad, a 29-year-old IT technician from California, US, quit his drug habit after reading translations (翻译) of Chinese web novels, reported People’s Daily in March.He turned to drugs to reduce the pain of a breakup in 2014. But the drugs caused him physical and mental pain, even threatening his life at times. However, after having the Chinese web novel Coiling Dragon (《盘龙》) recommended to him, Cazad became crazy with his new hobby, causing him to “forget” about doing drugs.“I went home wanting to [take drugs] every day,” Cazad told Southern China Weekly. “Now, I prefer to read the novels. They are addictive like drugs, but not harmful to my health.”Cazad is not the only foreigner to become a huge fan of online Chinese literature. In fact, Chinese web novels have recently been gaining popularity among foreign readers.According to a 2016 report from Novel Updates, a website that translates popular Asian novels for Western readers, among the site’s 10 most popular web novels, five were written by Chinese authors.And Wuxiaworld, the largest Chinese web novel translation forum (论坛) in the world, says it has more than 3 million page views a day.Foreign readers are attracted by the Chinese culture and history in the novels, according to online novelist Li Ruibin, who is well-known under her pen name Qinlyu.“As a Westerner, the traditional Chinese elements (元素) and strong plots (情节) really attract me. Outside of the Harry Potter series, I can’t think of any other books with so much imagination,” Fernando Hernandez, a Spanish engineer, told People’s Daily.Despite Chinese web novels’ popularity among foreign readers, some people believe they have no deep meaning, compared with traditional works.“Some online novelists give up quality for speed updates (更新). Low-quality writing with repetitive (重复的) structure and rude language will not survive long,” Han Haoyue, writer and cultural critic, told Xinhua News Agency.They also face problems with plagiarism (剽窃). For example, Eternal Love (《三生三世十里桃花》), a popular Chinese web novel that has been translated into English, has been accused of plagiarism.Nevertheless, many people still think highly of them. “Chinese online literature has a cultural charm (魅力) and is easily accessible (易接触的) to young foreign audiences. It is a good channel to improve Chinese culture,” Wu Wenhui, CEO of digital reading platform (平台) China Reading, told Xinhua.
