Masquerade madness
Halloween, celebrated each year on Oct 31, is just around the corner. Do you have any plans? Costume parties  are a common way for both adults and children to celebrate the holiday in the US. While young kids may lean toward dressing up as ghosts and witches, older children and adults tend to get more creative with their costumes. Many get inspiration from their favorite movies and TV shows.This year, there are many costumes inspired by the many different films and TV franchises  popping up like mushrooms. Whether you are going to dress up or not, come along with us as we take a look at what characters will be popular this year among Halloween partygoers in the West.Superhero costumesThis is a classic style that never goes out of style, according to myhappyhalloween.com. Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Guardians of the Galaxy are two big hits you can look to for inspiration. Captain America, with his shield and star-spangled tights, is a winning choice. A muscled bodysuit in dark blue that marks the Captain’s journey into stealth mode is a must-have. As for Guardians of the Galaxy, you can try a muscle-bound jumpsuit and matching mask to become the powerful Drax, or you can adorn yourself in a full-length molded jacket to feel the power of Star-Lord.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles costumesWith their new movie released just in time for Halloween, the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are bringing their costumes back with a vengeance this year. Going green takes on a whole new meaning when Leonardo, Michelangelo, Raphael and Donatello surface from the sewers to fight crime under the direction of their teacher and adoptive father, Splinter. From plastic nunchuks to color-coded masks, everything about these costumes is a hit.Princess-themed costumesPrincess costumes have always been a favorite, and this year is no different. Particularly, Disney’s Frozen costumes are a big hit. They rank first on the top 10 Halloween costumes according to tophalloweencostumes2014.com. From Elsa’s icy blue Snow Queen dress with snowflake overlays to Anna’s princess dress with a black bodice and regal purple skirt, these styles will make girls stand out at costume parties.Orange Is the New Black costumesNeflix’s original series has made jailhouse fashion a must for Halloween this year. Female inmates can choose from Piper Chapman’s trademark orange shirt and pants, fully labeled as prison wear. There’s always the light tan jumper as well. Fans of Galina “Red” Reznikov will be hungry for the master chef’s kitchen garb, complete with the letters “Red” stitched on the left. With a flag patch cresting the sleeve of the light blue shirt, George “Pornstache” Mendez’s uniform is also a good choice.
