Keep those cool looks
Winter has arrived and it’s time to make space for coats in your wardrobe. Although keeping yourself warm and comfortable should be the priority this season, it’s also a great time to express your style.Have a look at the biggest trends in coats this winter; get geared up for the season with our top picks and find the ideal topper for your favorite winter pieces.Boyfriend coat: big and beautifulFirst the boyfriend jeans, then the boyfriend blazer, and now the boyfriend coat–nonchalant and slightly too wide, as if you had stolen it out of your boyfriend’s closet.The boyfriend coat is made of thick wool in a sober tone. The straight cut and extra large buttons fit perfectly with the masculine trend this fall. Because the shoulders are loose, the jacket looks a bit too broad, but that is exactly the way it should be.How to wear the look: Tough girls can combine this new coat with skinny jeans and a pair of biker boots or sneakers. On a night out you can wear the boyfriend coat with a mini dress and stilettos.For a feminine look, you can also combine it with a small waist belt.Quilted jacket: puff and stuffNot a fan of the parka? Don’t worry, there’s another jacket that’s set to make a big comeback this season.That’s right, the much-maligned quilted jacket has returned. An extension of the trend for padded jackets started by “country chic”, the puffer has a serious advantage over other fashion jackets–it will actually keep you warm. A must for your wardrobe as we move into winter.How to wear the look: Wear it as a tougher look and combine the jacket with jeans and biker boots, or wear it slightly more “girlish” and combine with a dress.Military coat: super troopersEvery fall without fail we see the resurfacing of the much-loved military trend. Why do we love it so much? Because it always comes up trumps for reinvention, durability and styling edge.These coats will give any look a polished and put-together vibe. Needless to say, it’s enough to tempt any girl away from her summer wardrobe to a deeper color palette. This season it’s all about giving statement-making masculine garments an injection of pretty, feminine detail.How to wear the look: You can go for a beautiful parka that accentuates your waist, or you can choose the oversized edition. The green fabric in combination with leather sleeves is a great match. Want to complete this look? Combine your military coat with biker boots.
