The top ten dreams
Being ChasedThere is an issue in your waking life that you want to confrontbut are unsure how to do so. This issue is often a great opportunity for you to pursue a particular personal ambition. Although they may seem scary, your pursuers are actually bringing your attention to your unrealised talents in your own pursuit of fulfillment.Urge To Go To The ToiletToilets are what we use to cleanly respond to some of our most fundamentalneeds, so there is an issue in waking life where you are finding it a challenge to clearly express your own needs. This can often occur if you always spend your time looking after the needs of other people, rather than your own needs.Naked In PublicWe choose our clothes to present a particular image to the people around us, so being naked in public suggests that there is a situation in waking life that is making you feel vulnerableand exposed. Although it might be potentially embarrassing, sometimes you just have to open up to others so they can see your real talents.PregnancyPregnancy dreams will depend on whether you are trying for a baby, if so this may reflect your fears and anxietiesabout falling pregnant. For everyone else (even men dream of being pregnant) it can emphasise that the idea you may be working on needs time to grow and must take its natural course.FlyingBeing able to fly suggests that you have released yourself from circumstances that have been weighing you down in waking life. Although you may regard this feeling of liberationas just luck or coincidence, it is usually because you have managed to make a weighty decision or risen above the limitations of a heavy responsibility.FallingFeeling yourself falling in a dream indicates that you are hanging on too tightly to a particular situation in waking life, and need to relax and let go of it. Rather than being so concerned about losing control, sometimes you just have to trust in yourself and others by allowing everything to fall naturally into place.Car CrashThe vehicle represents your ability to make consistentprogress towards a specific objective, so in waking life, you may feel that you don’t have enough control over your road to success. Instead of trying to over control the situation, relax your grip and allow your fundamental instinctsand drives to steerthe best path for you.Running LateBeing late suggests you feel that you’re losing the opportunity to experience some sort of fulfillment in your waking life. This may be because you’ve been involving yourself in busy and sometimes meaningless activity, rather than committing tomeaningful action. Until you commit to a decision, you will always find yourself hesitating and using your time ineffectively.DeathDreaming of your own death can suggest you are aware of, or fearing, your own mortalityalthough death can also represent change in yourself or someone else. It is normal to dream of losing someone you love because it’s a natural fear. Death is inevitable but just because you dream it doesn’t mean going to happen sooner than expected.Unprepared For An ExamExams are how we judge our ability to perform, so this indicates that you are critically examining your own performance in waking life. Rather than immersingyourself in endless self-examination, the real test of your character is being able to accept your talents by celebrating your knowledge and achievements, instead of constantly judging them.
