Urban youth in space race
This is not a scene from a sci-fi movie: inside a 9-square-meter container is an artificial intelligence villa.Everything in the tiny flat is controlled by a touch screen mobile via a wi-fi network. The desk and chair emerge from the floor. The kitchen and bathroom unfold from the wall. The villa is a recent project by seven Beijing postgraduates majoring in mechanics. They spent 120,000 yuan and three months building a space-saving apartment.It seems that daunting housing prices don’t prevent young people from dreaming about their own dwelling place. Besides, they are experimenting in finding accommodation which suits their needs.Dai Haifei, 24, a new graduate of Hunan City University, attracted public attention recently with his 6-square-meter egg-shaped cabin in Beijing.Dai earns 3,500 yuan a month. His parents, a street cleaner and a construction worker in Hunan, have been trying to help him buy an apartment in Beijing. But Dai knows the dream of owning a flat is a long-term one. “In fact, what I need is only a small, quiet space of my own,” said Dai.Li Hailong, 21, a marketing officer with a software company near Zhongguancun in Beijing, is enthusiastic about both the container and the egg-shaped cabin ideas.“When looking for a place to live, we (young people) look for a combination of space and style,” he said.However, neither of the two creations is appreciated by urban management officials. A major reason, said construction experts, is that these designs pose potential safety risks.Zhong Zhixuan, deputy secretary general of Beijing Association of Inventions told The Beijing News: “Materials for the furniture, cooking utensils and walls have to be tested for fire-resistance and other safety standards before they are put on the market.”He also questioned how safe the movable furniture would be in an earthquake.Many young people favor small or even tiny apartments of no more than 20 square meters. However real-estate developers are “reluctant” to invest in such projects, said Ma Shaohui, chairman of the Yosemite International Urban Planning and Design Consulting Firm Ltd.“There are risks in terms of business returns,” said Ma. “The cost is usually higher when you have to repeat the construction of basic structures such as metal pipes in every unit.”Ma also questioned the sustainability of such apartments. A pigeonhole flat serves well as a temporary lodging for new grads, but it doesn’t address their long-term needs for accommodation, he said.The threshold for a comfortable living space, according to Ma, is a 50-square-meter apartment with a public area.When tiny apartments are not available, young people could turn to low-rent or other affordable housing solutions provided by local governments, said Chen Guoqiang, deputy head of China Real Estate Society.“The trend is that anyone with a local house registration and a job offer will be able to apply for a unit,” he said.
