Escape from modern life
People in the US have a special camp to go to this summer.Those who are tired of the social media treadmill and want to unplug for a couple of days can consider going to a fast-growing summer camp three hours outside of San Francisco, reported Reuters.Checking into the camp involves handing over your personal electronics to volunteers in white lab coats.Camp Grounded, now in its second year, offers hyper-connected attendees a break from the incessant noise of social media relentlessly battling for their attention.The rules of this “digital detox” camp are clear: No shop talk, no alcohol, and most importantly, no phones, computers, tablets or watches.Co-founder Levi Felix has stressed it is not just an experience for tech workers, although current and former Silicon Valley employees make up a big part of the clientele. This year, campers ranged from college grads to recent retirees, Felix said in an interview with Reuters.In recent years, the “unplugging movement” has been gathering steam, although it has been criticized by the press for stirring “postmodern techno-anxiety” and failing to recognize the positive impacts of technology. Each March, thousands of people unplug from their devices for 24 hours, as part of an event organized by the nonprofit organization Reboot.Tech-free getaway options like Camp Grounded are growing in the US, reported NPR. Hotels like the Lake Placid Lodge in New York and Hotel Monaco Chicago are offering digital detox or “black-out” services. The “Check-In to Check-Out” package at the Lake Placid Lodge invites guests to leave their electronic devices at the front desk to enjoy the peace and serenity of their environment.Time to take controlDavid Stewart, founder of SocialStudio, a company making social media applications, said he was not surprised that the digital detox camp was teeming with techies. “People designing addictive products are the most aware of the occasional human need to be free from them,” he said, admitting it can be a challenge for developers to strike a balance between engaging users and spamming them with notifications.With no iPhones or computers to distract them, campers at Camp Grounded participate in “playshops” featuring yoga, laughing contests and writing sessions, the NPR reported.But for many of the participants, the most exciting activity is conversation. Campers adopt nicknames and are barred from talking about work or disclosing their age. NPR quoted one participant as saying that not being able to discuss work or even reveal their actual names allows everyone to quickly understand each other on a more personal level.Felix says that life off the grid is not the end goal of the retreat. “It’s not about not using [technology]. It’s about being in control of using it,” he told the NPR. “It’s all about what you do when the devices are gone.”
