Screen harmful UV rays
As summer approaches we all enjoy outdoor activities. But with sunlight becoming more intense we should protect our skin from harmful direct exposure to the sun.Ultraviolet (UV) radiation can cause damage such as premature aging (wrinkles and age spots), skin cancer, damage to the eyes and even blindness.Sunscreen, in the form of lotion, spray or cream, provides a chemical barrier which reflects or absorbs UV radiation.However, there are reports that sunscreen contains toxic or cancer-causing chemicals. In China, some products have been found to contain heavy metal elements such as lead, arsenic and mercury. Medical experts warn that they can damage the kidneys.In May, CNN reported that, according to the Environmental Working Group, 75 percent of 800 sunscreens tested in the US contained potentially harmful ingredients. Only one-fourth of them were effective at protecting our skin without any toxicity.For instance, 56 percent of the products contained oxybenzone, which serves to absorb UV. But studies show that oxybenzone can be absorbed through the skin, and it is believed to be linked to hormone disruption, cell damage and may lead to skin cancer.The US FDA (Food and Drug Administration) says the ingredient is safe. Besides, a type of Vitamin A is also considered to be risky, but there is no conclusive evidence yet.So, how do you choose the best sunscreen? Apart from picking up those with no toxic chemicals, it’s wise to apply a water-resistant, broad-spectrum sunscreen, with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 15 or 30.This will protect you against both types of ultraviolet radiation (UVA and UVB), says the Environmental Working Group.UV radiation has two primary types of rays: UVA that has relative long wavelengths can deeply penetrate the skin and cause cell damage, and UVB are shorter-wavelength rays that affects the out layer of skin and chiefly cause reddening and sunburn.Sunscreens are made in a wide range of sun protection factors. The higher the SPF indicates better protection against sunburn-causing rays. For extended higher exposure, you may want a minimum of SPF of 30 to 50.Sunscreen with SPF 15 can block about 93 percent of all UVB rays, while SPF 30 blocks 97 percent and SPF 50 blocks 98 percent.“Dermatologists recommend using sunscreen in conjunction with other sun-safe practices,” wrote Daniel. M. Siegel, president of American Academy of Dermatology on its official website.
