How to stimulate your five senses on a date
First dates are hard to judge, and it’s even harder to decide what should come next. Most couples who date online tend to wait a while before taking their relationship to the next step. So, here’s a guide for all new online daters out there, on how to merge your senses whilst enjoying your first dates… Sound Reading out loud may sound dated, and silly, but to most it’s a chance to hear some of the greatest novels of our time read aloud by someone new. This is great because you get to hear if your date has a really sultry or sexy voice. Alternatively playing an album or listening to a radio station can be just as rewarding, and acts a great conversation opener. Sight Seeing something exciting for the first time reminds us of being children again, so why not find out things that your date has never done before, or go to a specific place that he or she has never been. Art galleries and museums can be moving when looking at beautiful masterpieces, however a cheaper alternative would be if you know of a favourite film that you and your date enjoy. Why not rent it out, curl up on the sofa and enjoy the company? Taste The most well-known aphrodisiacs to taste are champagne and oysters; however there’s little evidence that oysters actually boost one’s libido. So why not try sharing a relatively inexpensive dinner or picnic. Touch Now, we are not advising that you to blindfold your partner and make him / her feel their own way to the fridge, but we would suggest something a little more light-hearted, such as exercising together. Activities such as sail-boating, ice-skating or dancing are great as they bring out endorphins which makes you feel more energetic and attractive, make you both work together, and best of all can leave you falling over each other at the end. Smell You don’t have to douse yourself in expensive perfume, or have three baths a day, but personal hygiene should be key before a big date. Make sure you splash a small amount of perfume or aftershave on, but if it is quite a strong scent then a small amount can go a long way. You should also take into account that when we are nervous our body sends out more endorphins and our personal scent changes. Otherwise, if your date is coming to you, then you can light a few scented candles for the same effect. 
