Deadlines cause crisis
As the deadlines for midterm papers and postgraduate entrance exams draw closer, seats in campus libraries and classrooms are a scarce commodity.Competition for seats is making quite a few students’ heads spin. The Chinese media reported that university students in Wuhan even put up tents outside libraries in order to line up for places.An increasing number of college students are looking for alternatives. They are exploring new frontiers by turning dining halls, snack bars, cafes, and even meadows into their personal studies.Gong Yuhui, 18, a finance engineering major at the University of International Business and Economics (UIBE), likes to study at the Sculpting in Time cafe near her campus. Sharing a pot of lavender tea and, occasionally, a piece of cake, she and her friends often spend entire afternoons or evenings there.“I’m preparing for the Licensing Examination for Security Intermediaries,” the sophomore said. “Reviewing lessons in dorms was so stressful. My roommates went to sleep early, so I had to turn off all the main lights in order not to disturb them. The desk light was dim, and I had to be careful to avoid making any noise.”However, the laid-back atmosphere and soothing music in cafes help her focus. More importantly, she can discuss any questions with her friends.“In a library or classroom I have to refrain from asking questions and show consideration toward others.”Besides cafes and cake shops, students often opt to study in the open air.Ma Shuangshuang, a freshman at China University of Political Science and Law, reviews her legal material on the stone benches in the campus’ garden, despite the fact that her attention might be distracted by passersby.“The campus is located in the Changping suburb of Beijing, where the fresh air and clear sky nourish my mind,” said Ma, who sometimes lies on the grass while reading.But as the weather grows chillier, she is retreating indoors.For all-nighters, fast-food restaurants with a 24-hour service make a sound choice.In a well-lit snack bar outside campus, Wu Han, 19, from UIBE, is staring at exotic words on his iPad. He is brushing up on his Spanish before the midterm exam.“I hate classrooms because I am frequently asked to leave whenever students have a class,” said the English media major. “They also close before midnight.”Campus canteens remain a hotspot for studying. Many like to arrive early in order to occupy the seats by the windows. But Zhang Feng, 19, from Shanghai Normal University, considers the tables and chairs a little messy. “The lighting can be bad for reading,” said Zhang. The sophomore Japanese major still prefers libraries, where he has more self-discipline due to the solemn learning environment.Administrators are trying to tackle the seating shortage. Jiang Enqiao, a tutor at Beihang University, says colleges are catching up.“To cater to the individuality of post-90s students, posh cafes, tea houses and chatting saloons are being built at universities,” he said. “Classrooms are being equipped with hot water fountains, and some even with coffee machines.”But Jiang also said that studying off campus should not be the norm. “There are safety concerns, and it is important to work in an academic environment.”
