Ten of the world's most beautiful bookshops
Polare, MaastrichtConverted from a 13th Century Dominican church in 2006, the Polare bookstore in Maastricht is a temple of books that raises reading to a religious experience. Polare came under threat when Polare declared bankruptcy in February. It remains open for the time being under the name ’Boekhandel Dominicanen’ but staff have launched a crowdfunding campaign to save it from closure.El Ateneo, Buenos AiresVisitors can go from stage to page at this Argentinian icon. First built as the Teatro Grand Splendid in 1919, before becoming a cinema in 1929, El Ateneo appeals to the dramatic reader. With frescoed ceilings, ornate carvings and plush red stage curtains, it has retained its original splendour: customers can sit in the theatre boxes to browse in comfort.Libreria Acqua Alta, VeniceCould this be the world’s only underwater bookstore? Translating as ‘high water bookshop’, its canalside spot means an extra level of organisation for staff: the rubber boot-wearing owner has to move his books from the floor to bathtubs and higher shelves during regular flooding.Librairie Avant-Garde, NanjingCalled China’s most beautiful bookshop, Nanjing’s Librairie Avant-Garde was built inside a former government car park that had also been a bomb shelter. To find their way into the 4,000 sq m underground space beneath Wutishan Stadium, visitors follow a yellow-striped road; inside, a replica of Rodin’s The Thinker sits alongside a cash till made out of old books, and pillars with famous literary verses carved into them.El Péndulo, Mexico CityThis branch of Mexcian bookstore Péndulo offers a cultivated way to avoid the heat of Mexico City. Customers can leaf through shelves spanning two storeys or sit at the cafe listening to live music. In 2013, the chain celebrated its 20th anniversary by ‘releasing’ 1,000 books stamped with the message “This is a free book. Read it and return it to another public place.”Livraria Lello, PortoThis Portuguese landmark opened at the turn of the 19th Century. Its Art Nouveau space is dominated by a curving staircase with ornate wooden carvings to match its intricate wall panels and columns. Stained glass windows with plant motifs and a skylight showing the monogram of the store’s founder José Lello add to the churchlike appearance.Bart’s Books, CaliforniaBart’s Books – which calls itself “the world’s greatest outdoor bookstore” – was set up in 1964 by Richard Bartinsdale, who left book cases on the street to sell titles he no longer wanted. Passersby could leave money in a coffee can. Now, the store has nearly 1m books – many of which are still sold through an honour system – as well as a courtyard where browsers can play chess under the shade of an apple tree.Shakespeare & Company, ParisNamed after a bookstore frequented by Ezra Pound, Ernest Hemingway and James Joyce during the 1920s, the shop on Paris’s Left Bank has become equally legendary. Opened in 1951 by the American George Whitman – and run by his daughter Sylvia since his death in 2011 – it became a gathering place for Beat Generation writers like Allen Ginsberg and William S Burroughs. From the start, Whitman allowed travelling artists and writers to lodge at the shop, which is also a lending library.Corso Como, MilanHidden behind an unassuming facade, Corso Como was founded in 1991 by former editor-in-chief of Italian Vogue Carla Sozzani. She brought her fashion nous to the complex that combines book and design stores with a cafe, hotel and roof garden.Honesty Bookshop, Hay-on-WyeThe tiny Welsh town of Hay-on-Wye is a bibliophile hotspot: its literature festival, set up in 1988, was described by former US president Bill Clinton as "the Woodstock of the mind". More than 30 bookshops line the narrow streets – but the most striking is a set of shelves in the grounds of the town’s Norman castle.
