Routes to success
Among countless job titles posted on recruiting websites, one in particular might catch your attention: management trainee (MT).There are vacancies for management trainees in finance, trade, manufacturing and retailing.Whatever the business, the role is invariably the same: to qualify the individuals for managerial positions in organizations.“In every industry there is a need for managerial staff, from front-line supervisors to top executives,” said Hao Quan, HR director of KPMG, a global network of professional firms providing Audit, Tax and Advisory services. “And these functions require knowledge, skills, and judgment that are most effectively developed on the job.”While this is considered a fast lane to career building, the competition is very tough, according to Summer Tian, a senior consultant from Career International.Good news is that recent years have witnessed a surge in the number of MT positions provided by employers.Once the exclusive reserve of foreign firms, management trainee positions are now offered by State-owned enterprises, such as China’s Bank of Communications and private corporations such as Alibaba.According to HRs, trainees could be promoted to junior or middle management positions in three to five years and have a starting salary of over 100,000 yuan or above. Yan Lubin, an HR for Xiamen International Bank, revealed that several graduate student trainees became branch bank bosses within five years.To qualify a candidate’s training period may range from six months to five years. Very often trainee’s assignments are rotated among various departments, to help the newbie get familiar with the whole organization and its various functions. Usually, a mentor in a senior or medium position coaches you directly.The robust and prolonged training can be challenging. Xue Yuan, 21, a senior majoring in Chinese literature in Fudan University, was enrolled as a management trainee in L’OREAL (CHINA) Co., Ltd in February, along with another 19 peers on the program.“I need to deal with hands-on assignments in many areas including field sales, category management, market research and finance,” said Xue. “And I have lectures, guest speakers, presentations and tests.”She revealed that she could only sleep for six hours a night on working days. She needed to acquire knowledge swiftly.Despite good job prospects some find job rotation detailed and boring. Zhang Zhiyu, 22, senior majoring in computer science in Sun Yat-sen University, was hired by Park ’n Shop Supermarket last year.He had to spend several months working as a clerk in the sales department. “I had to clean the display shelves, carry food, and even slice pork ,” said Zhang, “I’m more like a handyman and every manager can give me orders.”Promotion still depends on ability. Meng He, 27, who entered KPMG as a MT in 2007, became an audit manager this year. “Opportunities favor those who perform well under pressure.”
