Moments of Samaranch
Former International Olympic Committee president Juan Antonio Samaranch died in a hospital in Barcelona on Wednesday at the age of 89.Samaranch was hospitalized on Tuesday in "very critical condition" after suffering a heart attack.He had been in intensive care in the Hospital Quiron in Barcelona.Born in Barcelona in 1920, Samaranch pursued a career as diplomat and sports administrator before leading the IOC for 21 years from 1980 to 2001.Yu Zaiqing, vice president of the Chinese Olympic Committee (COC), on Wednesday paid tribute to the late former International Olympic Committee chief Juan Antonio Samaranch, naming him "an old friend of the Chinese people."Yu said in a statement, "Samaranch is an old friend of the Chinese people. He had always hoped that China could host an Olympic Games. And his wish was finally realized in 2008. The Chinese people thank him."It was during Samaranch’s reign that China returned to the Olympics in 1984 after a 32-year absence. And awarding the 2008 Olympics to Beijing was widely regarded as one of Samaranch’s final legacies at the end of his Olympic reign in 2001."We can never forget President Samaranch’s help in Beijing’s successful bid and the exceptional success of the 2008 Olympic Games. When the preparations for the Beijing Olympics was disturbed by some political factors, he always firmly stood behind us," said Zhenliang, the Honorary President of the COC and one of China’s most famous sports figure. Here, let’s review some of his historical moments:File photo taken on July 13, 2001 shows Juan Antonio Samaranch, former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), announcing that Beijing, capital of China, won the right to host the 2008 Olympics during a meeting in Moscow, Russia. In this file photo taken on July 31, 1996, Juan Antonio Samaranch, former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) flaps gold medalist China’s Deng Yaping’s cheek during the awarding ceremony for women’s single of table tennis at 26th Olympic Games in Atlanta, United States.In this file photo taken on July 16, 2001, Juan Antonio Samaranch, former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), gestures after Jacques Rogge is elected as new IOC president during a meeting in Moscow, Russia. In this file photo taken on Aug. 13, 2008, Juan Antonio Samaranch (R), former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), awards medals to medalists of the men’s 1km time trial (LC 2) of the Beijing 2008 Paralympic Games cycling track event in Beijing, capital of China. In this file photo taken on Sept. 11, 2008, Juan Antonio Samaranch (C), former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), leaves words for the Dongsi Olympic Community Meseum in Beijig, capital of China. In this file photo taken on April 25, 1978, Juan Antonio Samaranch (R), then vice president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), visits the Great Wall in Beijing, capital of China. In this file photo taken on Sept. 16, 1983, Juan Antonio Samaranch (C), former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), awards Rong Gaotang (R), the Olympic Order in Gold in Shanghai, east China. In this file photo taken on Aug. 13, 2008, Juan Antonio Samaranch (C), former president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), views the boxing competition at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games in Beijing, capital of China. 
