Paintings bring grey road to life
A cute white cat peeks out of a hole with only its head visible. A long-eared rabbit licks its lips while looking up at a carrot. A blue stream flows out of a dense forest.These aren’t real scenes in a natural park. Instead, they’re paintings in tree holes on a road in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province. Hundreds of people are visiting the artistic road to take photos of the new paintings, inadvertently causing traffic jams.The creator of these eye-catching paintings is Wang Yue, 23, a senior majoring in visual communication design at Dalian Polytechnic University. Wang describes her tree hole paintings as “a beautiful journey” through which she adds fun and vitality to her hometown.“When I saw that the trees by the roadside had lost all their leaves, the ugly tree holes became obvious,” she said.“I thought if I could paint some interesting scenes in these holes they might add some color to the city.”But Wang was worried that the pigments in her watercolors could hurt the trees. After consulting environmental specialists and getting permission from city officials, Wang gathered her color palette, brushes and a stool and got to work.“Painting on a tree hole is not as easy as painting on a canvas. I had to take into consideration the shapes and sizes of the tree holes and adjust my designs accordingly,” she said. “Before I began, I also had to clean off the dust from the tree holes first.”With her simple tools, Wang can draw attentively for a whole day. “My first painting was of rosy clouds, but many passers-by couldn’t understand it. Perhaps it was too abstract.”After that, she began to paint animals. Using her paintbrush she creatively placed a raccoon, a squirrel and a cat in the holes.Wang spent between half an hour and three hours on each painting. Gradually, she created a fairytale world in the city, which is always covered by fog and haze in the winters.“The most important thing is to respect nature when you beautify the incomplete. So I didn’t try to make the holes round or flat,” Wang explained. “Instead, my cat’s paw is a piece of bark and the rabbit’s mouth is a small hole.”Wang’s friends shared her works on their micro blogs and she became a sensation. After that, she created her 11th work – a three-meter high panda playing in a bamboo forest.Wang, who has now returned to her university, said she plans to continue painting the tree holes. Her next aim is to tell stories rather than painting individual animals. “I was glad to let people see life’s beauty. I hope more artists can join me in painting the tree holes,” she said.
