Cook up a storm in the dorm
COOKING up a feast in your college dorm has never been easy. A lack of facilities and a shortage of time can make it hard to contemplate getting out your recipe book.But with the right dish, serving up a student meal doesn’t have to be tricky. Here, 21st Century suggests a couple of cheap, easy and quick-to-make meals that even leave some room for a little creativity.Ham and cheese toastyIt’s a popular snack for students in the West because of its high protein content and simple, yet delicious flavor. Cheese and ham go well together, especially when the cheese melts into the bread.Cost: about 10 yuanCooking time: 3 minutesIngredients: 1 slice of ham1 cheese slice2 slices of white bread1 spoonful of mayonnaise/ honey mustard/chili sauce (optional)1. Put the cheese and ham on a slice of bread. 2. Spread the topping on the other slice of bread. Different toppings can help vary the flavor – try mayonnaise, honey mustard, even peanut butter if you want a real taste of the West. Or, you can add Chinese chili sauce or sesame sauce to vary the flavor. 3. Put the two slices of bread together to make your sandwich and cut in half.4. If you have a microwave (or a toaster), you could put the sandwich into the microwave for about one minute to melt the cheese. Cheesy instant noodles This method of cooking instant noodles originates from a traditional South Korean dish called “army base stew”(部队锅). The combination of Eastern style noodles and Western cheese mixes well together, and it gives new life to your noodle nosh.Cost: about 7 yuanCooking time: 5-7 minutesIngredients: 1 pack of instant noodles1 cheese slice1 hotdog sausageA pinch of dried seaweed20 ml milk (optional)1. Make the noodles in the usual way: put the noodles in a bowl. Add the contents of the sachet for flavor, the hotdog sausage (cut into pieces) and pour boiling water over the noodles. Cover the top of the bowl and let it stand for three minutes. 2. Put the cheese slice on top of the noodles, cover the bowl again and wait for another two minutes until the cheese melts. Add dried seaweed (torn into small pieces) on top.3. Add some milk to the soup if you want to make it creamier. Since the dish has South Korean origins, it might also be appropriate to add some kimchi.
