Go ahead! Show your wild side!
STOP pulling that stone face and say, "Cheese!"The findings of a recent study by OkCupid.com, a popular dating site for 20-somethings, have thrown a wet blanket over our attempts to look cool in front of the camera: For both sexes, self-portraits with smiles can turn more heads, according to the study."For pictures of men, especially, the smile is critical," Sam Yagan, a founder of the site, told The New York Times. But sadly, only 37 percent of the men surveyed said they smile in their photos.And the myth of self-portraits goes on: The study also found that men and women want different things when it comes to online photos. Men tend to respond to photos in which the woman is at home, looking a little come-hither, rather than to photos taken with friends while out partying or on a trip. Ye Zhou, a 24-year-old veteran to social networking, said this was because photos taken at home show the less-crazy and less-wild side of a girl - instead suggesting commitment.But women seem to have a different take. "It kind of implies that men still want to keep women in the house," said Wang Congcong, a 23-year-old assistant editor in Beijing. Ironically, women demand no less in men’s photos. They want man to look off-camera and not directly into the lens. Looking away, they say, implies a model, sexy, brooding type. "They want a man who is thoughtful," explained psychiatrist Dr Gary Malone in an interview with 33 News in the US. "They want a man who is maybe a little mysterious and alluring. A man who’s more introspective."I’m horribly camera shy. Whenever I take a picture, I just can’t stand the way I look.’You’re not that photogenic’I have no problem with how you look, and you’re attractive to me in real life, but in pictures, you’re not. You’re really not photogenic.She knows how to pose for the camera.She’s 25 but occasionally acts younger.Please, anything but your duck faceDUCK faces and peace signs are all over the Internet. It’s not your fault - celebrities have set a bad example. But are these poses as cute and sexy as they are supposed to be? Many would say no:peace sign/ victory sign The problem with the peace sign is that, for the most part, everyone is standing around symbolizing instead of getting out and doing. If you want peace, make it happen - don’t just symbolize it.I don’t think it’s cute. I think it is tacky, cliched, overused, boring, lame and crap.duck face/puckered lipsHalf pout, half grimace, and completely stupid. Please, young women, smile or simper or smirk or grin, glower or glare, or just mope about if you like, but for the love of God, please put away the duck face.If it looks like a duck, chances are it thinks like a duck.Somewhere in the past few years someone for some reason came up with one of the most annoying poses EVER!!! I can’t even begin to explain how much it irks me and drives me bonkers.
