China's Top Ten Luxurious Cities, Shanghai takes No. 1
Top 10: Dalian Dalian has a shopping mall named“Parkland”, where many international luxury brands are sold. Although it is a small city and doesn’t have as many luxury car shops as Qingdao, Dalian does have a super luxury Hermes shop.Top 9: Xi’anZhongda International in Xi’an is on the list of the top shopping malls throughout the country, and the city’s increasing development of its luxury market is remarkable. There are two top stores in Xi’an-Zhongda International and Century Ginwa Shopping Center, but sale performance is still dismal in the country, so if Xi’an wants to share the high fashion area with Chengdu or Chongqing, it needs to put more effort in.Top 8: QingdaoRecently, the luxury market of Qingdao has grown quickly, and the opening of many luxury car stores and luxury brands makes Qingdao a leader of high fashion. Hisense Plaza is home to an increasing number of luxury brands.Top 7&Top 6: Chongqing & ChengduAs high fashion leaders in western China, Chongqing and Chengdu have a large number of middle and western luxury flagship stores. These two cities have influence over the whole western region. Many luxury brands interested in spreading to the western areas have set up stores in these two cities. Top 5: ShenzhenShenzhen doesn’t have as many luxury brands as Guangzhou; instead, the city focuses on high-quality furniture brands. Besides Beijing and Hangzhou, Shenzhen currently has a firm foothold in the luxury furniture area. Shenzhen is near to Hong Kong and shares consumption habits with that city. People from Shenzhen are more likely to buy luxuries there than those living in Guangzhou.Top 4: GuangzhouAs Top 4 luxurious city, Guangzhou remains powerful in the luxury market. It has many top shopping malls such as La Perle and Guangzhou Friendship Store. People in Guangzhou have huge purchasing power. Because of its geographic advantage, Guangzhou people like to go shopping in Hong Kong, which impacts the development of the local luxury market in Guangzhou.Top 3: HangzhouIn 2005, Hangzhou surpassed Guangzhou to become the Top 3 luxurious city. In the areas of dress, leather goods, furniture and cosmetics, Hangzhou has a number of luxury brands. Some are exclusive to Shanghai, Beijing and Hangzhou, and some are only available in Hangzhou. One of the luxury districts in Hangzhou is Hubin Street. Meanwhile, applying the unique Top Operating Model, Hubin Street is similar to other top fashion districts such as Via Montenapoleone in Milan.Top 2: BeijingBeijing claims the second largest amount of luxury in China. At the end of October, several new luxury brands opened flagship stores there. Beijing suffers in comparison with Shanghai, as some luxury brands are still exclusive in Shanghai. But Beijing remains at the top of luxury cities.Top 1: ShanghaiWithout doubt, Shanghai takes first place, as it has more luxury brands than any other city. There are numerous luxury shopping malls, and many high fashion districts. The high fashion district in the Shanghai Bund area is first rank worldwide. 
