Anne Hathaway Can’t Win
When you work hard, when that work is awarded, when your body and beauty match societal standards, when you check every box, and still everyone tells you you’re doing it wrong, that’s Anne Hathaway Syndrome.The first symptoms of Anne Hathaway Syndrome appeared in the run-up to the 2013 Oscars, when the composed, on-point Hathaway (nominated for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in Les Miserables) became a natural foil to Jennifer Lawrence’s cool girl tsunami. “Why Do Women Hate Anne Hathaway? (But Love Jennifer Lawrence?),” posed New York Magazine; “Anne Hathaway vs. Jennifer Lawrence: Why we hate one and love the other,” The Globe and Mail explained; “The Happy Girl vs. The Cool Girl: Why People Don’t Like Anne Hathaway,” wrote Indiewire. The New York Daily News even interviewed people on the street about their hatred of Hathaway: “She’s trying too hard to please everyone,” said one 28-year-old from Queens.Hathaway’s immediate tactic was to admit that her feelings had been hurt — “It does get to me,” she confessed. “But you have to remember in life that there’s a positive to every negative and a negative to every positive.”So Hathaway stopped trying, at least for a bit. She’s had only one starring role — as a scientist in Interstellar — since her Oscar win, and she’s maintained a relatively low profile. But in the last six months, The Try has returned: Alongside Kristen Stewart and Brie Larson, she’s the least cool part of Jenny Lewis’s “Just One of the Guys” music video. She even performed Miley Cyrus’s “Wrecking Ball” on Lip Sync Battle. Her Instagram is a series of self-conscious selfies, sincere mourning for Cecil the lion, and publicity shots paired with invitations to join her at the Apple Store, and cringe worthy use of hashtags.But Hathaway’s really not doing anything that different from Taylor Swift or Anna Kendrick. But their Try is just slightly less visible and, as such, infinitely more tolerable. Hathaway has checked every box on the “how to be a female celebrity” checklist. What’s frustrating, and maybe even tragic, is that doing so still makes people deeply dislike her.For most women: Success is not the same as likability. In fact, it’s often something that leads to the opposite. The things we value in men (power, drive, decisiveness) become the things we stigmatize in women.The Intern, then, is really a two-hour meditation on Anne Hathaway Syndrome.Within the confines of The Intern, it’s easy to see how unfairly Jules is treated. It’s harder, however, to see our own repulsion from Hathaway within that same paradigm: how we react against a woman who’s done her job too well, who’s failed to adequately hide her effort.Of course, everyone has the right to feel any way they please about the popular images that surround us. But, as always, those feelings say more about us — what we value and decry, but also our inner complexities and hypocrisies — than they do about the celebrities themselves.
