Best bad family photo ever?
’It can sum up parenthood pretty succinctly.’That’s how 32-year-old Steve Cramer described a family photo that shows his wife, Elizabeth, launch the couple’s 6-month-old son into the air as she attempts to swing him around for the photo.The family photo has gone viral on the Internet since it was taken in late August in San Clemente, California, while the young family was on vacation with other family members.’In my family we have about 18 of us, and a lot of kids,’ Cramer, of Castle Rock, Colorado, told GoodMorningAmerica.com. ’We started out taking the large photo getting everyone to smile. But as you can imagine, getting all those kids to sit and smile doesn’t go so well.’When we finished with that, my 4-year-old was done. He had had enough. But my wife and I were all on the beach in the coordinating outfits and we really wanted to get one good picture to show off our happy family, but it wasn’t going so hot.’Cramer explains that to get the children to calm down, they try and distract the boy with some fun, candid shots. And that’s when things went horribly wrong.’We swung them around a couple times, but the final time I heard my wife just go, ’’Ahhhh!’’ so I turn around and I see my son just gracefully and peacefully doing this full layout back flip, landing flat on his back in the sand,’ Cramer explained. ’We were just shocked.’The couple says the baby cried for about two minutes but eventually got over it and was fine.’He sniffled a little bit,’ said Cramer. ’But my dad is a pediatrician and looked him over and said, ’’Oh, he’s fine.’"Once the family realized the baby was fine, they looked at the photos the photographer had taken and realized they had Internet gold - the image has already tallied more than 2 million views since being posted on Reddit.’We looked and we got this incredible photo. It’s hilarious,’ Cramer said. ’Everything could have gone wrong, but it ended as best as possible. Every time I look at the picture, though, my palms still get a little sweaty.’
