My mom’s sacrifice for me
Feng Yinglong, 23, once thought mentioning his mom was the most embarrassing thing in the world. Now he accepts that his mother’s job as a ragpicker has supported him all his life. And he helps her by collecting backstreet litter.“My mom came to Suzhou from a small village near the city of Pizhou, Jiangsu province, to work as a ragpicker when I was in junior high school. Now nine years have passed. Her black hair has turned gray and her face is wrinkled,” reads the introduction to Feng’s online album dedicated to his mother, Yu Hualing, 46, who supported Feng’s education. Feng’s photos taken with an old camera have touched the hearts of many Chinese. His website has received more than 400,000 clicks and 7,000 comments.Many say his photos of his mother is the most moving pictures of 2010. Some viewers have praised his courage.One online post said: “Many young people complain that their parents can’t give them a better life. But often they don’t understand how tough their parents’ lives are.”For hours she rides an old trishaw collecting garbage, but earns only 3 yuan for a fully-loaded cart.Yu began her job as a ragpicker when Feng’s father died in 2001. She wanted to support Feng and his brother and enable them to continue their studies.At the beginning, Feng could not understand. “I felt inferior,” said Feng. “My classmates’ living conditions were better than mine. I did not want to mention my mom or what she did.” Feng’s ideas changed when he went to live with Yu in February 2007. He saw her working environment for the first time.“I woke up at midnight because the room was so cold. The bitterly cold conditions are what my mom has put up with for years,” said Feng.Yu woke up at 4 am and rode off on her trishaw. Feng opened the door to see her go but the chilly wind forced him to close the door.When Feng returned to campus after the winter vocation, his attitude had changed. “I told them that my mom cooks delicious pork chops, her needlework is great, and, that she works as a ragpicker,” said Feng.No one laughed at him. Feng began to pick up cans and bottles around the campus for recycling for money and his classmates helped him.When he graduated he decided to share his mom’s story with more people.“I am proud of my mom. I understand after so many years that there might be many moms with lowly jobs,” said he, “but there is no price on a mother’s love - and every child should cherish and respect his or her parents.”Feng did not expect that his photos would touch an emotional chord with so many people.He got e-mails from around the country. One woman wrote: “I felt ashamed when I saw your pictures. I missed my dad so much, and hoped he could forgive me.”Feng replied: “Parents remember every bit of progress we make in life and never feel disgraced by our failures. But young people are always dissatisfied. Please tell your dad you love him.”Now Feng works as a salesman in a wedding dress company in Suzhou. He’s on his way to creating a better future for his mom.
