Festival showcases youth on-screen (2)
The InternDirected by Nancy Meyers, USIn the movie The Devil Wears Prada (《 穿普拉达的女王》, 2006), Anne Hathaway played a lowly intern, slaving away for a senior fashion diva. But in her new film, The Intern, the roles have been reversed. Hathaway stars as a young fashion entrepreneur, Jules Ostin, who is in charge of intern twice her age, played by Robert De Niro.His character, Ben Whittaker, used to be an executive in the phone book industry. Though he is 70 years old, he refuses to end his life in a retirement home. He decides to volunteer as an intern instead.Jules, meanwhile, is balancing the pressure of managing a startup with the demands of a budding family. She has a stay-at-home husband and a young daughter that she starts to neglect as her business grows. Her days are packed with meetings, e-mails and phone calls. Ultimately, Ben uses his wisdom as a former executive to help Jules discover a better work-life balance.The Intern has earned superb reviews for its plot and storytelling. The Atlantic culture editor David Sims called it director Nancy Meyers’ “best film in more than a decade”. The movie is infused with lighthearted comedy and a laid-back style.“The Intern invites us to settle in from the start and practically throws a fleece blanket over our legs and asks us if we’d like some popcorn,” wrote Richard Roeper, a critic from the Chicago Sun Times. “It’s a lovely comfort movie, nestled softly in a cynicism-free zone.”DheepanDirected by Jacques Audiard, France“An astonishing film...radical and bold.” That is how The Independent describes Dheepan. Ever since its release in 2015, the movie has earned French director Jacques Audiard a wave of international accolades, which includes the top prize at Cannes, the Palme d’Or.The story of Dheepan is indeed unconventional. It revolves around a Sri Lankan young woman, Yalini (Kalieaswari Srinivasan), who is looking for an orphaned child and a husband to flee with from her war-torn homeland.Yalini wants a new life in Europe, but the only shortcut she can think of is to establish a makeshift family to gain political asylum. When an opportunity arises, Yalini allies with a Tamil soldier, Dheepan (Jesuthasan Antonythasan), and a young girl, Illayaal (Claudine Vinasithamby). Together they embark on new lives as refugees.The idea of “family” is usually infused with love, but what this unusual young family represents in the movie is fake love and everyday struggles.There are scenes where Yalini and Dheepan dance awkwardly, their body language clearly showing that they have no feelings for each other. There are also heartbreaking moments when Illayaal longs for the unconditional love that neither of her “parents” know how to provide. “The real subject is exploring the idea of a fake family,” Audiard told The Wall Street Journal.Dheepan marks the first time that Audiard explicitly tackles the subject of immigration. The process this young family goes through sheds light on the ongoing migrant crisis in Europe. They face immigration hearings, smugglers and poverty, just like many migrants today. “Dheepan is incredibly timely, touching on many of the cultural and political tensions currently in the air,” Slate’s Aisha Harris wrote.
