Let your looks blossom
Warm weather doesn’t seem like a distant dream anymore. You may already be planning a wardrobe revamp to embrace the season of change and new beginnings.But if you think the spring will once again be all about floral prints and pastel colors, you’d better hold onto your wallet for a second. The fashion world is gearing up for a major shift in the 2013 spring season and some not-so-spring-like trends will be making the rounds.Black and whiteThe idea of wearing black and white in spring sounds a bit crazy. Nevertheless, head-to-toe black and white is slated to become a huge trend this spring after being featured on multiple runways, from Alexander Wang to Marc Jacobs. The extreme contrast between black and white has paved the way for a return.But a black-and-white look doesn’t need to be boring or banal. You could play with different textures, for instance mixing sequins with leather or tweed with lace, to present new takes on this classic combination.Bold stripesStripes are coming back as another replacement for floral patterns, which we often associate with spring. You can spot them in almost every collection major fashion designers are presenting on the runway.The stripes of 2013 are noticeably more prominent than those of past seasons: bigger, longer, stronger, and even more versatile. They come in a large variety of shapes, from horizontal, vertical, and chevron to any contrasting design.Bermuda shortsShorts are no longer just a summer thing and 2013 spring fashion trends call for showing some leg. A number of designers feature Bermuda shorts in their collections.These roughly knee-length pants are so called because of their popularity in Bermuda, a British overseas territory, where they are considered appropriate business attire for men.Outside Bermuda, they are more of a fashion statement. You could pair them with a blazer for a preppy style, or combine with a sweater for a more casual look.Bomber jacketsIf there is only one thing you splurge on this season, let it be a bomber jacket. Bomber jackets have reigned supreme on the spring/summer catwalks for the current year.The garment, first invented during World War I to keep pilots warm, is back in both men and women’s fashion with a modern fix: curved around the shoulders for added volume. In other words, the right jacket should fit loosely around your body and may appear bigger than you’re used to.Typical bomber jackets are made of leather, but don’t worry as there are many animal-friendly alternatives.
