Top reads for 2015
Good books take readers on journeys in their minds. The announcement of this year’s US National Book Awards finalists has highlighted a number of modern literary gems.The books tackle a range of topics, from science to friendship to culture. Here are some standouts to add to your reading list.A Little Lifeby Hanya YanagiharaPublisher: DoubledayA Little Life follows four university friends, Jude, Willem, JB and Malcolm, who start their adult lives in New York City after graduating from a prestigious New England college. They attend parties, go on dates and gain professional success.What sets this novel apart is that Yanagihara explores larger issues through her work.As the narrative unfolds, Jude’s mysterious and traumatic past emerges. When Jude’s friends try to help him, they start to realize limits of love. Sadly, they struggle to accept what can’t be helped.Yanagihara scrubs the novel of any significant events and important figures in New York. This gives readers a sense of immediacy and allows them to make close connections with the characters’ emotional lives.This page-turner has captivated readers. US talk show host Andy Cohen even post a photo of himself reading A Little Life on social media. “Best book I have read in years. Beautiful, heartbreaking, unforgettable,” he tweeted.Between the World and Meby Ta-Nehisi CoatesPublisher: Spiegel & GrauTa-Nehisi Coates, a correspondent for The Atlantic, explains what it means to be an African-American in the US in his latest book Between the World and Me.Drawing from the style of James Baldwin’s 1963 book The Fire Next Time, Coates addresses the rampant racism in the US. Interestingly, the book is written in the form of an open letter to Coates’ 14-year-old son Samori. Through its pages, Coates hopes to prepare Samori for the challenges that young African-Americans face on the street and even in school.Coates shares his tough childhood in West Baltimore and his inspiring college life at Howard University. He also depicts prominent incidents of social injustice in the US.What makes this book stand out is Coates’ great writing. “The language of Between the World and Me, like Coates’ journey, is visceral, eloquent, and beautifully redemptive,” US Nobel Prize-winning novelist Toni Morrison commented.The Soul of an Octopusby Sy MontgomeryPublisher: Atria Books“A good book might illuminate something you knew little about, transform your world view, or move you in ways you didn’t think possible. The Soul of an Octopus delivers on all three,” the magazine New Scientist commented.After writing about birds, pigs and tigers, US naturalist Sy Montgomery decided to choose these polypod animals as the subject of her latest book, The Soul of an Octopus:A Surprising Exploration into the Wonder of Consciousness.“Here is a baggy, boneless body that can pour itself into the tiniest spaces, has venom like a snake, ink like an old fashioned pen, a beak like a parrot, can taste with their skin, and can change color and shape,” Montgomery explained to the National Geographic on why octopuses intrigue her.In the book, Montgomery explores the emotional world of the octopus. She uses different experiments to show that they possess consciousness as well as individual personalities.For example, based on her research, she finds out that Octavia, an octopus caught in the wild, is friendly and good at multi-tasking. And Kali, who has been living at the New England Aquarium, is playful and loves exploring.Montgomery is a good storyteller. Her skillful writing weaves facts together with personal narratives, which makes the book very informative but easy to read.
