Literature-inspired travel
Literature has the power to make us soar, to transport us, to move us, and – for a certain class of travelers – to literally make us travel. Literary travelers add a whole new layer of meaning to the phrase “birds of passage”; they are tourists who seek out places of significance to the literary world. Often this means making a pilgrimage to the birthplace or residence of a writer, or to the setting of a famous scene. If this sounds interesting to you, we’ve prepared a small sample of literary travel destinations.Shanghai, China“There are times when our little courtyard ripples with infinite tenderness.”– Xu Zhimo, Chinese poetWe begin our worldwide journey in Shanghai, where – underneath the glitzy surface of the city – one can uncover some real literary gems. One luminary of Shanghai literature is Lu Xun, a writer often celebrated as the father of modern Chinese literature, who spent his last nine years in the city. It’s compulsory, then, for all Shanghai literary travelers to visit Lu Xun Park in Hongkou, which features a memorial hall dedicated to the great writer. You can also walk to Lu’s former residence, which is minutes away.Another place worth visiting is the old neighborhood of poet Xu Zhimo, located in Yan’an Zhonglu in Jing’an district of Shanghai. Xu is renowned for importing “New Wave” romanticist poetry into Chinese verse. Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore once stayed at his home while visiting Shanghai.Travel TipsYou can spend hours taking walking tours of Shanghai’s literary past, complete with guides to talk you through its rich history.All Of England“And did those feet in ancient time Walk upon England’s mountains green?”– William Blake, English poetIn England you can’t spit without hitting something of literary significance. In fact, literary landmarks are so ubiquitous in London that the “blue plaque” scheme was started to visibly mark notable sites. Blue plaques are often attached to the residences or schools of famous writers. One of the quirkier plaques can be found at 221B Baker Street － the flat of Sherlock Holmes (although we have it on good authority that he never actually stayed there). On that note, be wary of fake plaques, such as the one that celebrates “Jacob von Hogflume, inventor of time travel”, who “lived here in 2189”.Outside of London, it is possible to take organized tours around the countryside that fostered England’s canonical writers. If you join a Charles Dickens or Jane Austen tour for instance, you’ll have the unique opportunity to visit the locations of famous fictional scenes. But for a truly immersive experience, you can visit Stratford-upon-Avon, the birthplace of Shakespeare, and watch nightly performances of his plays.Travel tipsA plane ticket from Shanghai to London during Spring Festival will cost around 6,000 yuan. There are many companies that conduct literary tours, including Lynott Tours, CIE Tours and Unique Tours of Britain. The cost of tours varies significantly, so we recommend checking the websites in advance.Rome, Italy“Go thou to Rome – at once the Paradise, The grave, the city, and the wilderness…”–Percy Shelley and Mary Shelley, English poetsThis quote is extracted from an elegy to John Keats, the English Romantic poet who traveled to Rome in the hope that the Mediterranean air would cure his tuberculosis. It didn’t, and Keats died within three months. Despite the ephemeral nature of Keats’ visit, Rome has a permanent reminder of his presence in the form of the Keats-Shelley House. Keats’ former residence has been transformed into a small museum, complete with a working library. What’s more, just across the street is the Antico Caffè Greco, a cafe frequented by definitive authors like Charles Dickens, Lord Byron, Henry James, Hans Christian Andersen, Mary Shelley, Goethe… We could go on, but you probably get the idea that this is a mandatory destination for any literary traveler.Travel tipsA round-trip flight to Rome from Shanghai will set you back 5,500 yuan during the Spring Festival break. Bullet trains can take you to Shanghai from most major cities. It is recommended that you read Goethe’s Italian Journey before you leave – the book is available online or at any self-respecting English language bookstore.
