Chow down for power
American media flocked to the small town of Fairfield, Iowa, last week for one of the strangest scenes in the US presidential race: the Iowa State Fair.The 10-day festivity, which ended on Aug 23, is a popular campaign stop for presidential hopefuls. But it’s not the candidates’ politics that fall under scrutiny at the fair. It’s the politics of food.Choking down the fair’s fatty food has become a kind of test, measuring each candidate’s ability to level with the common folk. And with hawk-like precision, the media catalogues each and every morsel that enters their mouths, down to the calorie.Headlines last week roared that Republican candidate Jeb Bush broke his diet by eating a 445-calorie, deep-fried Snickers candy bar. And everyone from Hillary Clinton to Donald Trump bit on the fair’s most famous offering, the pork chop on a stick, as cameras flashed around them.All the while, the candidates find themselves surrounded by cattle competitions, cooking contests and life-sized carvings made of butter. It is a celebration of the US’ food traditions–but what do those traditions say about the country and its candidates?Iowa is an agricultural hub, producing more corn and eggs than any other state. Yet, for a state renowned for growing fresh food, its fair is best known for its fried foods. Anything that can be fried will be: pie, pickles, butter, cookies–and the list goes on.Eat poorly and be humbleBut beware the backlash should a politician give up the fatty treats. In 2012, former Texas governor Rick Perry was ridiculed for daring to choose a vegetarian corn dog. And reporters keenly noted how Jeb Bush threw out half of his deep-fried Snickers this year.Candidates craft their public images to appear humble and folksy. And a candidate’s willingness to swallow the fair’s unhealthy food serves as an indicator, to see if their actions match their carefully constructed public image.In the US, eating healthy can be seen as a mark of elitism. Michael Pollan, author of The Omnivore’s Dilemma, put it simply: “It is a fact that to eat healthily in this country ... costs more than it does to eat poorly.” Processed foods are often cheaper than fresh fruits and vegetables, and more widely available.The fair’s food also gives contenders the opportunity to stand apart from the Barack Obama administration, which championed healthy lifestyles. By sinking their teeth into the fatty food, the 2016 candidates are taking a decisive bite against their predecessor’s ideals.The purpose of agricultural fairs was originally to “display abundance”, historian Megan Elias told the BBC. Blue ribbons were given to the fattest cow, the largest pumpkin.The United States was built on down-home values and capitalist consumption. And the Iowa State Fair allows presidential candidates to unleash that all-American zeal–at least until the fair’s end. Then it’s back to the diet, Mr Bush.
