10 bizarre divorce products
Coffin for you wedding ringGive a dead marriage its proper, final resting place. WeddingRingCoffin.com sells the final resting place for your dead marriage’s wedding ring. Don’t forget to choose your custom plaque。Divorce Gift RegistryDid your ex get your favorite tea kettle and plush Egyptian cotton towels in the divorce? Not to worry, now you can head down to Debenhams department store and register for some more. Go ahead and add lots of stuff to your divorce gift registry。Divorce CakeWe all know that the cake is one of the most important parts of the whole wedding hoopla. Immense amounts of time and energy are put into choosing a design and cake tastings. But what happens when you get divorced? Well, you get a cake. At least that’s according to Larry Bach, the owner of Sprinkles Custom Cakes in Winter Park, Florida. Though his bakery does far more wedding cakes, Mr. Bach admits that he has created a few cakes for women going through a divorce。Detachable Playhouse for Children of Divorced ParentsThe reconfigurable playhouse lets children of divorced parents "play out" complex domestic issues – it can be configured into separate houses for each parents, and can even be configured to have a separate house for the new partner!Divorce RingJewelers Spritzer and Furman created this symbolic ring to commemorate the ending of a marriage. At $3,200 it’s a cheap price to pay for saying goodbye to someone you (used to) love。Divorce Photo AlbumItalian photographer Gianni Fasolini heard that the divorce rate is going up and got a brilliant idea. "People celebrate a marriage as a milestone in their lives, but a divorce is an important event too," he explained. "so I started to offer photo sessions for freshly divorced couples – them smiling or shaking hands or in some cases even kissing。Divorce Music AlbumDuring divorce everyone feels a little depressed. That’s why hearing a CD with the greatest divorce music may be a good option. It combines music from all genres and eras into one package. I recommend giving it to anyone who is facing separation/divorce/ or a break-up。Divorce iPhone AppIf your marriage is feeling the strain, you may wish to take a look at the Divorce? The app, written by one of the UK’s leading family lawyers, doesn’t encourage divorce，but if you’re a bit further along in that process, the app is a pocket-sized guide that lays out lots of the information you might find useful and that you can discreetly take with you for some quite reading. Available from the app store now。Divorce Survival KitGive the man who’s going through a divorce a little moral support with this Divorce Survival Kit for Him. The kit includes: A Nudie Book - for those lonely nights ahead; Legal Fee Voucher - free consultations with law firms; Toothbrush - to brush the bad taste in his mouth。Kitchen UtensilNot only functional, but also therapeutic, "The Ex" Knife Set and Holder is a five-piece knife set plus holder that makes for the perfect gift. Constructed with heavy-gauge durable stainless steel, each knife offers a razor-sharp precision, ergonomically designed for comfortable handle。
