Hands on experience
It’s a stiflingly hot summer afternoon in Beijing. Waves of heat wash over Tian Meng as he signals city buses at a stop near Beijing University of Chemical Technology. Often known as summer vacation social practice, the tradition of college students doing community work has been going on for years.Many students routinely help poor families, or visit rural schools with donated books. Others provide company for senior citizens. However, 20-year-old Tian has noticed that many of her peers want to learn more about society.And summer vacation social practice has become an opportunity for students to get involved and gain a better understanding of how society operates.With a red flag in hand, Fan Chengpeng, a freshman at Bengbu College in Anhui, is helping traffic police direct traffic.The seemingly easy work of “green go, red stop” actually posed a challenge.“It is very demanding to monitor all the cars, bicycles and pedestrians,” said Fan. “It’s only when you do it you realize it’s hard.”Yang Zheng is a sophomore from Beijing University of Technology. He recently got a temporary job at the local City Administration and Law Enforcement.He used to think of city administration staff as harsh in their treatment of hundreds of vendors around campus.The 21-year-old wanted to find out how they operate. He learned that a city administrator’s workload is heavy. On some occasions, he was on the go, out of doors for eight solid hours.“City administrators’ work is to keep streets and alleys clear so to prevent potential bottlenecks,” said Yang.Schools are trying to make summer vacation social practice a gateway for students to find a career path.Yang Huian, of the student affairs office at Anhui University, has been organizing summer projects for years.He sees a new trend in this campus tradition.“In the past, summer projects were only for show to some extent,” said Yang.“This year, many schools have realized that summer projects are a good chance for students to have a workplace preview and to find out what society is like.”According to Yang, many schools have given special funds to summer projects so that students can get “more professional” experience.Zhao Can, a senior at Anhui University, toured Fengyang county where Fengyang Flower Drum Opera originated.Zhao researched how to keep this cultural heritage from vanishing in the pop culture era.Students were required to conduct detailed field research and a marketing survey to help revive the heritage. “It’s like we are on a business trip and we have to take something back to the boss at the end of it,” joked Zhao. “It’s good experience for both study and future employment.”
