Don’t become cynical
It was a fairytale wedding. Guests thought they were gathering to celebrate Priscilla Chan’s graduation from medical school.Instead it was to witness Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg wed Priscilla, his longtime Chinese American sweetheart.The ceremony was held on May 19 in the backyard of the couple’s modest house in Palo Alto, California.But soon commentators were making cynical remarks about the timing of the wedding.Here’s what the Atlantic Wire, an online newspaper, said: “The sweet story about a young couple seeing all their dreams come true has quickly turned into a different tale of cold, convenient, calculation that could only warm the heart of a tax accountant.”And The Huffington Post said: “It was cute and romantic until everyone, including The New York Times, noticed that by waiting until the day after cashing in his fortune, Zuckerberg conveniently protected his billions from California’s communal property law.”What happened was that the couple wed the day after Facebook’s public flotation on the stock market which netted Zuckerberg a cool $19 billion.Divorce lawyers were quick to comment on what they considered a smart move. Robert Bievans, a lawyer based in Napa, California, said on the Atlantic Wire, “In California people who live together without the benefit of marriage could claim they had an agreement to pool resources and efforts.”He went on: “Although they are hard to prove these claims can get really ugly.”Property magnate Donald Trump was reported to have advised Zuckerberg to draw up a “prenuptial agreement”.Another attorney, Garret Dailey, was quoted saying: “One of the primary reasons that wealthy people enter into prenups is to prevent the kind of carnage that can come with divorce.”Any prenuptial agreement signed by Zuckerberg and his bride would have forced them to agree exactly how to split assets, including his Facebook stock, if their marriage broke up in future.A Facebook spokesperson declined to comment on whether the couple signed such an agreement.What are we to make of all this? Well, you could say that it demonstrates how cynical the media and society as a whole have become.According to Webster’s New World College Dictionary, a cynic is someone who believes that people are motivated in their actions by selfishness.A cynic denies the sincerity of people’s motives and actions. A cynic reckons that people generally have an ulterior motive for what they do. Cynics tend to be distrustful and disparaging of other people’s behavior. They are bitterly or sneeringly distrustful, contemptuous or pessimistic.Maybe you know someone like that?I did. She was a hard-bitten journalist who was suspicious of all forms of authority.This is not a bad trait in a journalist. Reporters should adopt a skeptical attitude to politicians who often talk the talk, but don’t deliver.However this woman’s cynical attitude toward everything, at once refreshing, soon became corrosive and irritating. Her rants against government, bosses, anyone in authority bordered on paranoia.The opposite of cynicism is optimism tinged with naivety. There is nothing wrong with being naive.We all start out that way and as we gain experience of the world we become more circumspect about people and things. Better be nonjudgmental rather than cynical.
