Should a true friend always tell the truth?
Many of us have been there: Your best friend is in a relationship with someone really unpleasant. Watching how your friend is being treated badly is heartbreaking. You want to tell your friend that their boyfriend or girlfriend is a jerk and the relationship a mistake. But this could easily hurt your friendship. Should you hold your tongue, or speak up?The New York Times recently called in a group of relationship experts to discuss this conundrum. They all agreed that honesty is expected from a true friend. What is important is not whether you should speak up, but how you speak up.Before you do unpleasant anything, make a careful assessment of the situation. Is the relationship casual or serious? Is the situation abusive or merely annoying? You need also to be clear of your own motives in speaking to your friend. Is it only because you don’t like their boyfriend or girlfriend? Are you jealous because your friend doesn’t spend time with you anymore?If you’re still sure your friend’s relationship is wrong after considering these questions, how you voice your concerns may be the difference between a broken and a deepened friendship, says Juli Slattery, founder of Authentic Intimacy, a US-based non-profit organization helping people up and develop healthy relationships.There is a very fine line between saying you’re concerned and telling your friend they’ve made a bad decision, Slattery says. She advices on having one intentional conversation about your concerns instead of constantly making remarks. Once you’ve voiced your concerns, do your best to encourage your friend even if they choose not to take your advice. Remember, no one likes to hear “I told you so.”Although honesty is much appreciated in a friendship, brutality isn’t, says writer and reporter Keli Goff. Her advice is: When you confront your friend, avoid giving him or her the “brutal truth” but instead try to soften your delivery.Goff calls this the “iron fist, velvet glove” approach. Sometimes you need to let your friend decide if they want to hear the truth. For example, you could say this to a friend who has a cheating boyfriend:“Someone I know has a problem and I don’t know what to tell her. She found out her friend’s boyfriend is cheating on her but she doesn’t know if she should tell her friend or stay out of it. She asked me what she should do but I’m not sure what to advise her. What do you think? Would you want someone to tell you the truth in a similar situation?”That way, Goff says, your friend gets to determine whether or not he or she ends up on the receiving end of your “brutal truth”.And if that fails, you can always send an anonymous e-mail.
