Sip on some warmth
Nothing warms you up on a chilly winter day like a steaming hot drink. With all that extra time on your hands this winter holiday, why not try to prepare a drink all by yourself?People all over the world have their own hot beverages, and here we highlight a few that you might be able to create on your own. Check out the list of ingredients and get mixing!Hot chocolate/cocoaMany of us are used to eating chocolate, but few know that the treat was originally enjoyed as a drink. It is believed that hot cocoa was created by the Maya some 2,000 years ago before being introduced to the world at large and undergoing various changes. It’s an especially tasty drink to have when you’re hanging out in the outdoors or participating in winter sports like skating and skiing.Ingredients: cocoa/chocolate powder, marshmallows (optional), sugar, milk powderDirections:1. Combine the cocoa/chocolate powder, with some water, and sugar.1. Cook them over medium heat.3. Add milk and heat it, but avoid boiling.4. Serve it up. Pour it in a mug or cup.5. Top it with marshmallows if you like.Hot ginger teaWith a spicy and invigorating flavor, ginger tea is not merely a drink, it can also be used to remedy indigestion, nausea and symptoms related to having a cold. After a semester’s hard work, it’s wise to relax and nourish your body.Ingredients: water, fresh ginger root, dates, honey, brown sugar or lemon slices (optional)Directions:1. Cut ginger root into thin slices.2. Add the ginger, dates, and brown sugar (optional), in the boiling water and simmer for 15-20 minutes.3. Strain the tea. Add honey and lemon.Pear soup with tremella fuciformisAs a traditional Chinese soup, it is beneficial to drink in winter, especially in smoggy weather. The tremella fuciformis is a fungus that is good for the lungs and that relieves coughing. When the pear is simmered for a long time, the soup turns thick and refreshing. The soup can nourish your skin and helps to expel toxins as well.Ingredients: Pear, tremella fuciformis, wolfberry, rock sugarDirections:1. Put the fungus in water for two hours.2. Tear it up into small pieces. Throw the yellow part away.3. Wash the pear and cut it into small fragments.4. Put all the ingredients and water in a pot.5. Boil the mixture, and then keep boiling it on low heat for one hour.Mulled wineA sweetened, spiced European drink, mulled wine is best served around the holiday season, especially during Christmas. The fragrant smell of mulling spices will bring a warm holiday atmosphere to your home instantly. It’s recognized as one of the best drinks to serve to guests.Ingredients: red wine, whole spices like cinnamon, star anise and cloves, lemon, honey or brown sugarDirections:1. Mix the ingredients in a large saucepan.2. Warm on a low to medium heat (avoid boiling) and stir to dissolve the honey or sugar.3. Wait until the wine is steaming.
