School of selfies
Selfies have emerged as a ubiquitous way to capture memorable moments. They can mark reunions with family, intimate moments with your beloved, and good times shared with friends.When it comes to taking selfies, knowing the right way to utilize the light, finding the best angle, capturing an outstanding background, and proper editing can directly affect the quality of your final product. This guide will lead you to taking some of the best selfies you’ve ever seen.Find the lightThe use of light is crucial to improving image quality in professional photography. This also applies to the world of selfies.Face the light: Lights can dispel shadows and create soft features on your face, so always try to turn your face toward the main light source.Move your body: If you want to be creative, play with light angles by turning your body, but make sure the photo is properly exposed and your face is lit from the front or the side. Additionally, avoid taking selfies against the main light source or with overhead lighting.Find natural light: Try to use natural light; sunlight at sunset and sunrise possesses a warmth that makes you look like you’re glowing.Strike a poseWhen taking selfies, angles do matter. But showing people your confidence and genuine smile can be more significant.Hold the camera away: Hold the camera away from your face, and try to take photos both horizontally and vertically; If not, your face might look bigger than usual due to lens distortion.Universal selfie angle: Ideally, the universal selfie angle is 45 degrees above your head. But you should study your face at different angles because finding your best angle requires you having seen all of them.Be creative: Sometimes silly selfies that show how you honestly are can be entertaining.Manage the backgroundOne problem with selfies is that most have distracting backgrounds. Without a doubt, you are the most important element in the selfie, but it would be imprudent to ignore what’s behind you.Clean up the background: Try to declutter the background by taking selfies outdoors or in spacious areas.Show fun things: Document yourself engaging in interesting activities — hiking with family members, visiting landmarks, or working out with friends.Hold tight: You can even hold the camera tightly with two hands to snap selfies.  Make sure your face and the background are not blurry.Perfect your selfieYou can always do more to show others your best side, and there are ways to perfect your selfies to attract more eyeballs.Crop artistically: Photojournalism professors often advise students crop photos ruthlessly because distracting backgrounds don’t help in telling stories. In selfies, you do not necessarily need to tell people stories, but you can definitely make the photo appealing by getting rid of your outstretched arm or a background that’s too busy.Apps will help: Download some photo apps that allow you to adjust the lighting and contrast. Some apps also offer useful filters, which will be able to change your skin tone and eliminate pimples on your face.
