Social anxiety prevalent
Wang Na (pseudonym), 21, at Jilin University, has been experiencing social awkwardness since her junior middle school years. Back then, she felt self-conscious about going to the restroom alone. She even limited the amount of water she drank just so she didn’t have to go there often. “I feared that other students would think that I didn’t get along well with others if I was seen alone,” she said.Wang is not the only sufferer of what’s called “social anxiety”. China Youth Daily recently did a survey among 1,544 people. Nearly half (44.6 percent) of the participants admitted that they were afraid of being the center of attention. Up to 66.7 percent of them said they are more likely to be anxious during face-to-face communications than in online conversations.But these feelings are not necessarily something to worry about. “There is ‘social anxiety’, and there is ‘social anxiety disorder’ or ‘social phobia’. They are two completely different things,” said Li Songwei, a lecturer at the psychological counseling center of Tsinghua University.According to Thomas Rodebaugh, a psychology professor at Washington University in St Louis, US, almost everyone suffers from at least a little social anxiety. For example, we may get the jitters before speaking in public, or have a bad night’s sleep if there is going to be an important interview the next day.“We’d be worried about someone who never experiences any social anxiety,” Rodebaugh told The Atlantic.But when does social anxiety develop into a disorder? That is up to a doctor to diagnose, says Li. There are two simple questions you can ask yourself if you’re concerned–“How much does the anxiety affect my life?” and “Is it acceptable?”If the condition becomes so problematic that you refuse to go out at all and cannot live a normal life, you need to seek help.But for common social anxiety, people all have their different coping strategies. “The more coping strategies one has, the less likely the anxiety is going to develop into a disorder,” Li said.Tina (pseudonym), 20, at Zhejiang A&F University, faces anxiety every time she has to speak up in class, so the strategy she employs is “reasoning plus rewards”. For example, she tells herself that there is no such thing as right or wrong when speaking publicly; there are only people who agree with you or not. And if she conquers her fear, she buys new shoes or goes to see a movie after class.“The first time I pushed myself to speak up in class was a breakthrough,” she said. “Things seemed a lot easier after I took that first step.”
