Focus on China’s 2011
This has been a year of tremendous upheavals and remarkable changes. From economic turmoil to the death of several well-known public figures, 2011 has seen the world transformed dramatically. Despite the tough external environment, China’s economy remains a bright spot in the world, with a slowed down pace of growth.Here at 21st Century, we’ve combined the analyses of international news agencies, like that of AP, Time magazine and Xinhua, to bring you a list of the year’s top news items.Now, as 2011 draws to a close, we can only hope the new year will bring with it greater social stability and the restoration of a strong international economic order.1. Economic soft landingThis year, China officially overtook Japan as the world’s second largest economy.Xinhua News Agency said that China remained a much-needed bright spot in the world economy. Economic growth is slowing a little, but it still stayed above the global average.Facing a tough and depressing world economic situation, China has maintained a steady but slowed-down growth rate this year.A report by Beijing-based Renmin University of China (RUC) forecast that China’s economic growth this year would hit 9.4 percent before slipping to 9.2 percent next year. However, it said that even with that figure, the country still outperforms other major economies and stays in shape.The cooling trend reflects China’s efforts to seek an economic soft-landing. The country now puts the emphasis on domestic consumption rather than export gains.It’s also trying to strike a balance between curbing inflation and maintaining the economic growth rate.This year, China made a good, fresh start on the 12th Five-Year Plan (2011-2015). The plan aims at upgrading China’s growth model and economic structure.2 High-speed trainChina’s bullet-train ambitions hit problems in 2011 and ultimately slowed down.The country’s latest high-speed railway system suffered several technical breakdowns since it came into service in late June.Later, on July 23, one bullet train rear-ended another in a collision near Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, killing 40 people and injuring almost 200. The cause of the accident is still under investigation.The tragic accident prompted calls for thorough check-ups on all high-speed rail services. After the crash, Sheng Guangzu, the railway minister, ordered a slowing down of the speed of all bullet trains.Several high-speed railway projects scheduled to open this year will be postponed.3. Shen Zhou VIII and Tiangong-1In 2011, China moved closer toward the goal of operating a permanent space station.On September 29, China launched its first space lab module Tiangong-1, which was unmanned. On November 3, unmanned spacecraft Shenzhou VIII successfully docked with the Tiangong-1 space lab module, after it was launched two days earlier.President Hu Jintao described it as a milestone in China’s space program and a remarkable contribution to humanity’s exploration of space. Despite progress made in the country’s space program, President Hu also said that China’s overall level of scientific technologies, especially indigenous innovation capabilities, lagged far behind world-leading standards.
