Grads rise to challenge of life in the military
You spend the first three months on strenuous training, confined within a campsite.You have to run five kilometers every morning, carrying a heavy rucksack and rifle. You mustn’t stop doing push-ups in the snow until your sweat melts the snow beneath your face.Then you may be sent to any part of the country as a sentinel and be expected to stick to your post for the rest of your two-year military service.College students are expected to prefer safe and relatively comfortable office work to military life. However, an increasing number of college students have been attracted to a career in the military in recent years.According to the China Education Daily, the army enrolled nearly 130,000 servicemen from college students and fresh grads in 2009. The number is 60 times bigger than that in 2001. It has been boosted by a series of preferential policies in terms of finance and employment.Nationwide enlistment this year will start on November 1. Tens of thousands of college students and grads have applied.With pampering parents and a recovering job market, many of these soldiers-to-be of the post-90s are not going for the preferential policies. They are looking for friendship and a physical and mental challenge.Zhang Yang, 20, a sophomore at Shenyang University, will be excited when he sees war films showing soldiers’ heroic actions and their comradeship.“To be honest, we people of the post 90s tend to be self-centered and hot-tempered because many of us are the spoiled only child in our families,” said Zhang. He has found it difficult to make close friends on campus.“It may be easier for me to find a buddy at the campsite where my comrades-in-arms and I will share tough training together.”Zhang is prepared for exhausting military exercises. But the biggest challenge may come from adapting to the strict discipline and hierarchy.Yu Bi’er, 24, joined the army in 2009 as a fresh college grad. She is now a member of the naval art ensemble in Guangzhou.Yu has a strict timetable for her mealtimes, showers and time spent watching TV. There is little time left for herself. She needs to ask for the squad leader’s permission when she wants to go to the washroom.Like many new recruits enlisted from college students and graduates, Yu had a squad leader who was much younger than her. The leader had joined the army much earlier after graduating from high school.“We have to act in unquestioning obedience to the orders of our superior. We say yes whatever the order is,” said Yu. The leader gave an order, and off Yu went to fetch water for her.The rules may seem inhuman, but they are not unreasonable. Great discipline is required in war and in disaster relief.Zhao Feng (not his real name), 24, took part in a mine disaster relief when he served the army in Leshan, Sichuan.Zhao was struck dumb when he carried corpses for the first time. But he managed to carry out the clean-up because, without thinking, he did what his commander ordered.According to Zhao, life in military campsites is not monotonous. Besides training, soldiers can enjoy movies and perform onstage in speaking contests.“But I have lost contact with the outside world in the past two years,” Zhao admits. He is not allowed to use a cell phone, let alone the Internet. The only TV program available is Xinwen Lianbo, China Central Television’s daily news broadcast at 7 pm.Zhao Yang, 25, had the same problem when he finished his two-year military service in Shanxi and returned to Beijing last year. But he was confident about job-hunting and soon got a job in a securities agency.“Soldiers are hardworking, punctual and fearless. Employers will appreciate such employees,” said Zhao. He can keep high-spirited selling products in chills for the whole day.
