The World’s Most Beautiful Bookstores
Boekhandel Selexyz Dominicanen, Maastricht, The NetherlandsDutch architecture firms SatijnPlus Architecten and Merkx Girod transformed a decrepit 13th-century church into a spectacular bookstore in the center of Maastricht. A three-story bookcase houses volumes and offers incredible views of the restored sanctuary, while the choir area is now home to a café.Saraiva, Rio de JaneiroStudio Arthur Casas crafted a colorful, four-story outpost for Brazilian bookseller Saraiva.The double-height first level is bordered by a rainbow of books arranged on warm walnut shelves, and seating options by Brazilian designers such as Sérgio Rodrigues offer pleasant spots to read.Cook & Book, BrusselsShoppers can feast on words as well as food at this inventive bookshop in Brussels. Designed by interior architecture firm Delacroix & Friant, the store is spread over two buildings and divided into nine uniquely decorated sections, each with its own dining area. Books appear to hover above the black-and-red fiction department, while an Airstream is the centerpiece of the travel area.Fang Suo Commune, Chengdu, ChinaArchitect Chu Chih-Kang took inspiration from the life of a Tang Dynasty Buddhist monk and scholar when creating the concept for the new Fang Suo Commune location in Chengdu. Designed as a knowledge depository, the subterranean space features a variety of natural materials, such as concrete, copper, iron, and sycamore, which are combined to create dramatic, almost Brutalist interiors.Livraria Cultura, São PauloA cross between a bookshop and a town square, Livraria Cultura’s outpost in the Jardim Paulistano neighborhood offers plenty of spots to linger with friends or the latest hardcover. Architecture firm Studio MK27 designed the sprawling location, which includes a cavernous top floor with 69-foot-long bleacher seating and two levels of books.Shakespeare and Co., ParisThe quintessential expat bookshop was founded by American George Whitman in 1951 and remains a Left Bank landmark under the ownership of his daughter, Sylvia. Filled with books from floor to ceiling (and a few overflowing outside), the cozy store is set in a 17th-century building that once housed a monastery.Livraria Lello, Porto, PortugalIf the sumptuous surroundings of Livraria Lello feel straight out of a Harry Potter book, there’s a good reason for that—J.K. Rowling lived in Porto while writing the series, and the bookstore is rumored to be part of the inspiration for Hogwarts. The neo-Gothic building, built by Xavier Esteves in 1906, houses more than 100,000 books amid stained glass and ornate carved wood.Atlantis Books, Santorini, GreeceLocated in the tiny village of Oia on the island of Santorini, Atlantis Books is a small literary haven tucked into the basement of a traditional whitewashed building overlooking the caldera. Since opening in 2004, the charming shop has become a landmark and must-visit destination for travelers and locals alike.Librairie La Fontaine, Lausanne, SwitzerlandLocated within the Rolex Learning Center on the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne campus, this branch of Librairie La Fontaine reflects the curvilinear architecture of the SANAA-devised building. Kawamura-Ganjavian, in conjunction with NOR architectes, created elliptical bookcases that curve to form pods with seating areas for browsing.Daikanyama T-Site, TokyoDesigned by Klein Dytham Architecture to feel like a “library in the woods,” Daikanyama T-Site is composed of three buildings connected by a central corridor known as Magazine Street. Each pavilion is clad in latticelike screens of interlocking Ts and low-emissivity glass, which reflects the surrounding trees. Inside, the Anjin Lounge is decorated with a screen by contemporary artist Masatake Kosaki and a bar and tables made of secondhand books.The Last Bookstore, Los AngelesSet in a 20,000-square-foot space in downtown Los Angeles’s Spring Arts Tower, the Last Bookstore is a madcap cross between an independent bookstore and an art installation. The airy space is filled with creatively repurposed volumes, including a mural and tunnel made out of books.Cafebrería El Péndulo, Mexico CityEl Péndulo, a chain of Mexico City bookstore–coffee shops, may have several locations, but the most beautiful is the Polanco branch. The bright, soaring space includes two stories of books, the second accessible by balcony. Plants and vines wind their way through the shop, adding a jungle feel.Assouline, LondonThe esteemed publishing company celebrated its 20th anniversary last year by opening its first international flagship, in London’s Piccadilly area. The 5,400-square-foot store is set in a 1922 building designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens, and shoppers can commission custom-made volumes from the on-site bookbinder, dine in the café, and outfit their home library with both books and furnishings.El Ateneo Grand Splendid, Buenos Aires, ArgentinaArchitect Fernando Manzone transformed a former theater into a spectacular branch of El Ateneo, the Argentine bookseller. Located in the Recoleta area, the 1919 building displays rows of books beneath the domed ceiling painted by Italian artist Nazareno Orlandi and along the ornate balconies.
