Student issues daring challenge
A philosophy student clashed with a business tycoon in a war of words — and came off the winner.Du Huiying, 21, is a senior majoring in philosophy at Nanjing University.Tang was giving a speech, entitled “My Success Can Be Replicated” (《我的成功可以复制》) to students at Nanjing Forestry University on April 27.“I tried to raise my hand to get the microphone but the questions were prearranged. I ran directly to the platform,” she said.She launched her verbal attack by saying: “I think Mr Tang Jun’s success cannot only be replicated, but also photocopied. Can you autograph these?” So saying, she took out copies of Tang’s allegedly fake diploma from Pacific Western University. This was a reference to a reported scandal in which Tang admitted spending more than $3,000 (19,479 yuan) to obtain his doctorate degree.Du then fired off her next question: “How did you manage to get a US Permanent Resident’s Card?”And her parting shot was: “What is your opinion of your subsidiary company Zijin Mining Group leaking polluted water into the local river?” The audience was dumbstruck. Tang answered the questions briefly and walked off. Later some observers praised Du as a heroine who dared to challenge a person in authority. But others criticized her on Renren.com for showing little respect, and suspected her of courting publicity to gain fame.Du doesn’t care what others think. She insists that she was trying to change society’s values.  “Society only measures a person’s success in terms of money, status and reputation. Morality is often not taken into account,” she said.Du admitted to 21st Century that she has disliked Tang for a long time, mostly for his bogus academic qualification.“Normally speaking, if you bought a diploma, you would not boast about it ,” said Du. When she knew that Nanjing Forestry University had invited Tang to make a speech, she planned to play a trick on him with her classmates.There are other reasons that Tang made Du uncomfortable.“He advertises his theory of success, and tells young people not to focus on the dark side of society,” said Du. “But he only wants to divert public opinion so it would not notice that his mining company is polluting local waters.” Du is not a high-profile student —she seldom likes to argue. Most of the time, she sits quietly in the library, reading and thinking. She reads works on the humanities and history, not self-help books on being a success. That’s why she chose philosophy. “Majors such as economics and marketing are tools. But this is a university, not a school of technology,” said Du. She believes that the most important thing on campus is to develop the humanistic spirit and skepticism. “You really should have your own judgment and opinions, instead of following others blindly,” she said.Du is now working as an intern in a management consulting company, but hasn’t got a formal offer. “I just hope my life can return to normal” she said. 
