Poison to passion
It’s a staple on menus, from boutique teahouses to Starbucks: green tea. But the brew, which is experiencing a resurgence of popularity, once fell out of favor in the West.Green tea is believed to have originated in China millennia ago, where it was recognized for its health benefits. And scientists continue to discover new uses for the beverage. Some studies suggest it can help reduce cholesterol, protect against cancer and perhaps even fight cavities.Bolstered by the health food craze, green tea sales are currently soaring. The Tea Association of the USA reports that green tea sales jumped more than 60 percent in the last decade. And in Canada, government data shows that profits for green tea imports more than quadrupled.Nowadays, green tea seems to be everywhere. In shops, you can buy green tea leaves prepared in a myriad of ways: fried, aged, powdered or steamed.The irony is, despite green tea’s healthy reputation, the drink was once condemned as dangerous. Where did this nonsense come from? Blame the Victorians, of course.The Victorians lived in a period of English history around Queen Victoria’s reign, in the 19th century. That’s when some of the silliest theories about green tea arose.One 1882 book described bizarre experiments to illustrate the perils of green tea. Apply a dose of green tea below a frog’s abdomen, and you could cause paralysis in its hind legs, the book claimed. And injecting the beverage into a dog would cause it to lose control of its bladder, legs and tail.The book went so far as to allege that green tea could kill someone, if it were applied to the sciatic nerve.At the time, a green tea panic was sweeping England. Even Charlotte Bronte, an English literary icon, refused to touch the drink, fearing its diabolical effects it would have on her nerves.Some of the fear was well founded, though. English consumers preferred brighter leaves, over dull olive-colored ones. As a result, tea vendors would artificially dye their products, using anything at their disposal – including poisons like “Prussian blue” cyanide.Even today, mixing green tea with chemicals remains a problem. Just ask the British Medical Journal, which published an article on Sept 23 about a 16-year-old who contracted a virus after drinking contaminated green tea.But those rare instances aren’t stopping Westerners from raising their pinky fingers in salute to green tea and all its nutritional virtues. Bottoms up!
