Employers’ prejudices
For a second time an HR manager says sorry to Han Jiayue before remarking ironically “if you were male, we would definitely sign you”.The 23-year-old Wuhan University of Technology graduate has a good GPA and an impressive resume. The only reason she has yet to get a job offer is that she is female.“I was qualified for everything,” said Han. “But I got eliminated in the final interview because I am a woman.”According to a recent survey by Beijing Working Committee on Children and Women, more than 61 percent of female graduates are the victims of gender discrimination.But things do not stop there. Employment discrimination of various kinds is widespread. Experts warn that job discrimination has already become a social problem that poisons the cornerstones of a healthy society – justice and equality.A 2010 survey on college graduates employment by China University of Political Science and Law revealed that more than half suffered employment discrimination from gender to age, height to Hukou.Recently, a state-owned petroleum company rejected several job applicants who had Hepatitis B despite regulations about not discriminating against them.According to a report by Beijing Yirenping Center, an organization dedicated to combating Hepatitis B discrimination, over 60 percent of major state-owned enterprises require a Hepatitis B examination as a precondition of a job offer.Yang Liyan, of a Wuhan-based psychological consulting company, said that bias is the cause for discrimination, which could be avoided.“People’s fear of the disease is the root of prejudice,” said Yang. “Like HIV, people would not be infected just being around carriers. But the public is not informed enough to accept that.”Job hunter Han agrees. “People think women employees will be a burden because they will get pregnant, take maternity leave and will breastfeed,” said Han.However, according to Liu Xiaonan, assistant professor at China University of Political Science and Law, discrimination in the workplace damages social justice and equality. Liu’s 2010 research found that 59 percent of employers require a local Hukou in their hiring specifics.“This is institutional discrimination inherited from the era of the planned economy,” said Liu. “The Hukou system is of the many obstacles that prevent a healthy mobility of talent around the country.”Cai Dingjian, a professor at the same university as Liu, told The Beijing News last year that discrimination is rampant in the job market which is fundamentally a lack of equality which undermines social stability.As to Han, people say that third time’s the charm. She finally found a company which did not mind her being a woman.“But I was asked if I’d agree not to get married until my fifth year in the company,” said Han.
