Top 10 Phrases from Shakespeare
Green-Eyed MonsterThe evil Iago plants doubts in Othello’s mind about his wife’s faithfulness, while advising him, "O, beware, my lord, of jealousy! / It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock / The meat it feeds on." (Othello, Act 3, Scene 3)In a PickleIn The Tempest, King Alonso asks his jester, Trinculo, "How camest thou in this pickle?" And the drunk Trinculo – who has indeed gotten into trouble – responds "I have been in such a pickle since I saw you last ..." (Act 5, Scene 1)One theory has it that the phrase in a pickle entered English from an old Dutch expression that translates as something like "sit in the pickle".Love Is BlindThis phrase has more than one meaning: we overlook flaws in those we love (that’s good), but love can blind us to serious issues (that’s bad).In The Merchant of Venice, Jessica is shy about her beloved Lorenzo seeing her disguised as a boy, but recognizes that it won’t affect his love for her, saying, "But love is blind and lovers cannot see / The pretty follies that themselves commit ..." (Act 2, Scene 6)Salad DaysIn Antony and Cleopatra, Cleopatra recalls her relationship with Julius Caesar that occurred during, "My salad days, / When I was green in judgment...." (Act 1, Scene 5)Originally, English speakers used salad days with Cleopatra’s meaning: a time of youthful inexperience or indiscretion. These days, however, it usually means "an early flourishing period" – in other words, a heyday.Wear My Heart on My SleeveDiscussing his planned betrayal of Othello, the villain Iago says, "But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve / For daws to peck at: I am not what I am." (Othello, Act 1, Scene 1)There’s the RubIn Hamlet’s famous "To be or not to be" soliloquy, "ay, there’s the rub" is the tormented prince’s acknowledgement that death may not end his difficulties because the dead may perhaps still be troubled by dreams. (Hamlet, Act 3, Scene 1)Cruel to Be Kind"I must be cruel only to be kind; / Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind," says the tormented Hamlet. He has just mistakenly killed Polonius, and it’s clear that he doesn’t know how bad things are going to get. (Hamlet, Act 3, Scene 4)Wild Goose ChaseIn Romeo and Juliet, Mercutio likens the rapid exchange of jokes between Romeo and himself to the cross-country horse race of Shakespeare’s time, known as the wild goose chase, in which any number of riders tried to keep up with and accurately follow the lead rider’s course:"Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, I am done; for thou / hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than, I am sure, I / have in my whole five." (Act 2, Scene 4)Dogs of WarIn Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 1, a grief-stricken Mark Antony predicts that the instability following Caesar’s murder will result in civil war: "Cry ’havoc!’ And let slip the dogs of war!" ("Cry havoc" was the military order for soldiers to seize plunder from an enemy.)Strange BedfellowsWhen Trinculo seeks shelter from a storm under the cloak of a creature he’s very unsure about – he wonders if it’s a man or a fish – he comments "misery acquaints a man with strange bed-fellows." (The Tempest, Act 2, Scene 2)
