Shrug off holiday blues
Lu Wenfei, 22, is a senior student majoring in broadcasting and TV engineering at the Communication University of China.She enjoys chatting with her friends or playing Texas Hold ’em Poker on her iPad over this festive season. She plays all night and sleeps during the day.“I like to put everything out of my mind when I have a chance to relax,” said the student from Shanghai. “However, I find myself more exhausted and flat than when I’m studying hard on campus.”With half of her holiday gone, Lu suffered a series of common post-festival syndromes: stress, fatigue and a sense of frustration.Exhausted and a bit concerned about her graduate project and finding a job, Lu fell ill with a fever.Lots of college students are hit by anxiety and depression before a new academic session. Too many parties, gaming and fat eating is exhausting. Sina.com has reported that some training agencies have offered tutorial service to help the youth to shift from “holiday mode” to “study mode”.Zhang Sheng, 19, a freshman at Nanjing University has already begun to develop a phobia at the thought of returning.He has yet to open any of the books on the recommended reading list, not to mention write any English journals.He also had a headache over a dozen hard subjects on the new semester’s curriculum.He wonders how he can throw off his lethargic holiday mood. He is right into watching live English Premier League soccer until 3 or 4 o’clock in the morning, or following the popular British teen drama, Skins. “I have to pull myself out of that state,” he said.However, some students feel better about a return to study. Zhao Shumeng, 23, a journalism major from Peking University has a well thought-out plan for the rest of her holiday.She plans to immerse herself in preparing for an incoming discussion of a group project. “It would be too late if I try to get a grip on everything at the start of the semester.”Li Wei is a director in charge of students’ administration work at the School of Foreign Language Studies at Ningbo Institute of Technology, Zhejiang University.He suggests that young people ease themselves out of the holiday mood at least a week before the start of term.“You could go to a local library or bookstore or you could contact your study buddies at university,” he said. “It’s most important to make plans.”His advice is echoed by Yu Baolong, a teacher of students’ work at Nanjing Medical University. He emphasizes adjusting your biological clock back to normal as early possible and not leaving it to the final day or two of your holiday. “Imagine what you want to do next year, and draw a timetable, the more specific the better,” said Yu.
