The secrets of successful sleeping
According to a recent study, sleep problems are not just tiring and frustrating, they can also cause health problems, raising the risk of heart disease and stroke.Here, we examine some of the most common and explain how to tackle them.Waking too earlyDr Stanley, a sleep expert says, “Waking too early is one of the classic signs of depression, though no one knows why.” Changes in your environment can also wake you too early, as we wake easily in the morning anyway as sleep becomes lighter. ‘You almost certainly won’t wake up for the first three hours of night as you are deeply asleep,’ says Dr Stanley. ‘But later sleep is much lighter and more prone to be disturbed by noises.’What you can do:‘The big caveat is that if you feel fine during the day then whatever’s happening isn’t a problem,’ says Dr Stanley. If you think the issue is insomnia, speak to your doctor.Walking/talking in your sleep‘Everyone is capable of sleepwalking or talking,’ explains sleep expert Dr Stanley. ‘The conscious part of your brain can be deeply asleep while other bits, such as the area controlling movement and navigation, are still awake.’ The problem can run in families, but it can also be triggered in anyone when sleep is partially disturbed, meaning part of their brain is awake. One trigger is alcohol, which lightens sleep. Parasomnia is also common in children as their nervous system is still developing. It can also be brought on by medications, such as some antidepressants, or by different drugs interacting.What you can do:The advice is to try to work out the triggers which disturb full sleep (such as alcohol), check side-effects of medication with your GP and check if the problem runs in your family.Teeth-grindingLikely cause: Known as bruxism, teeth-grinding varies from jaw clenching to ferocious grinding that wears teeth down to stumps. It is usually due to genetics or stress. What you can do:‘Treatment is important, as people who grind their teeth have dental problems but also tension headaches,’ says Dr Stanley. Usual treatment is a gum shield, though some people grind through these. If teeth-grinding is caused by stress, then the cause should be addressed.NightmaresLikely cause: Stress may be a factor, but otherwise they are a random occurrence. ‘Nightmares are luck of the draw,’ says Dr Stanley. ‘We all dream four or five times a night, but only remember them if we wake up during or just after them. So we are all probably having disturbing dreams and just not remembering them.’ What you can do:People often associate nightmares with stress, which then makes them more anxious. Although stress can cause you to wake up more, remember we all have bad dreams all the time. Try to improve your sleep so you wake up less often.
