Modern approach to being a parent
Wang Weijia and her husband grew up surrounded by posters proclaiming "Mother Earth is too tired to sustain more children."They learned the lesson so well that when Shanghai government officials, alarmed by their city’s low birthrate and aging population, changed course this summer and began encouraging young couples to have more than one child, their reaction was instant and firm: No way."We have already given all our time and energy for just one child. We have none left for a second," said the 31-year-old Wang, a human resources administrator with an 8-month-old son.The family planning policy has been credited with easing job market pressures and preserving natural resources. Yet it has also led to a dangerously low birth-rate and an unusually large aging population. While experts say the government is unlikely to change the national policy, officials are looking into ways that they can address the policy’s downside.China’s family planning policy was formulated in the early 1970s. It encourages late marriages and late childbearing, and it limits most urban couples to one child and most rural couples to two children. Official figures show that the country’s birth rate dropped from 1.8 percent in 1978 to around 1.2 percent in 2007, resulting in 400 million fewer births cumulatively, according to the Xinhua news agency.At the same time, the number of Chinese residents 60 and older is predicted to explode from 16.7 percent of the population in 2020 to 31.1 percent by 2050, according to the UN Population Division. That is far above the global average of about 20 percent.The imbalance is worse in wealthy coastal cities with highly educated populations, such as Shanghai. Last year, according to China Daily, people 60 and older accounted for almost 22 percent of Shanghai’s registered residents, while the birthrate was less than one child per couple.Tian Xueyuan, a population specialist and member of the National Population and Family Planning Commission (NPFPC), addressed these concerns in the People’s Daily recently. Tian proposed that couples who are the only children in their families should be allowed to have two children.Meanwhile, some local governments are already taking steps to improve the situation in their regions, according to Shi Chunjing, an official of NPFPC. Shanghai, for instance, is giving certain urban residents (if both husband and wife are the only children) permission to have two children.Young people say noLi Jianxin, a professor of social demography at Peking University, says that the younger generation, especially those living in cities, are unlikely to have more children without first considering the economic challenges that decision might bring."The lifestyle and viewpoints of the post-80s generation are totally different from the 50s and 60s generations," Li said. "Many Chinese want to give birth to fewer but healthier children."Yuan Tian, a 25-year-old photographer in Shanghai, has a 1-year-old daughter. And one, she says, is enough – due both to the cost of raising a child and to the challenges a child poses to developing a career."Giving birth really affected my career," she said. "When I returned to work, it took me several months to catch up with my colleagues again. And I can’t focus on my work, since I need to leave the office early to take care of my daughter."
