Hottest hats for winter
Maybe it is the effect of all those lovely hats at the British royal wedding. Or maybe it’s because every fall/winter catwalk featured hats in all shapes and sizes perched atop the models’ heads. Whatever it is, hats are hot this year. From the understated to the completely overboard, here are some of the trendy hats to complete your wardrobe this coming winter.Animal-shaped hatsFashion changes dramatically, but the animal craze apparently is still not going away. Animal-shaped hats, in the form of either faux-fur hoods or knitted beanies, are still one of the most popular hat trends.American pop star Katy Perry first popularized animal-shaped hats in 2009 when she was photographed in a panda beanie. But the headgear didn’t become big until a year later when the Los Angeles-based brand Spirit Hoods took the fashion world by storm with faux-fur hats in all colors and animal types.This year, the animal headwear trend is still going strong. A number of celebrities have been rocking the trend and wearing their inner animal on their head.High School Musical actress Vanessa Hudgens was spotted wearing a wolf hood earlier this year. US rapper Nicki Minaj sported a tiger hood during the New York Fashion Week in September. And the Baby singer Justin Bieber was caught trying on a panda hat.If you’re going to heed the call of the wild this winter, what would your animal beWide-brimmed fedoraBad news for those who are tired of seeing fedoras: this style refuses to die.Fedoras can be traced back to the 1920s Hollywood silent film era. After nearly a century of life, the style is still in resurgence.This winter, fedoras get wider brims, a trend promoted on the fall/winter 2011 runways of designer brands Gucci and Christian Dior.Wide-brimmed fedoras not only inherit all the advantages of the classic fedora but also have more romantic, feminine and retro qualities. Even American pop star Rihanna couldn’t resist its charm. She was spotted in Paris wearing one last month.For men, wide-brimmed fedoras can be worn with suits and more casual outfits. Women can sport it with mannish clothes for a menswear trend.
