Decoding America's TV hits
A NEW season of American TV shows has hit the Web, but before many Chinese can enjoy hits like Gossip Girl and Ugly Betty, groups of translators volunteer to first decode their idiom and language - or at least try to.These translators are known as "subtitle groups" - people adding Chinese subtitles to American TV shows. From all walks of life, they have cultivated strong English listening and speaking skills.Yu Lei, a 24-year-old senior at Hebei University, marvels at how fast the translators work. "I follow five dramas every week, and Chinese-subtitled versions of hits like Gossip Girl, House and Ugly Betty are available online six or seven hours after they air in the United States." One of these translators is Huang Ying, a 23-year-old graduate student of Chinese at Fujian Normal University. Two years ago, she responded to a help-wanted ad on the Fengruan website, one of the top four subtitle groups in China. She applied, took a test via e-mail, and within days found herself racing to decode English dialogue. Every time a new episode of Gossip Girl airs in the US, she works for hours to complete a good translation, which a "colleague" then uploads to the Web. The work may be hard, but Huang says she enjoys matching her English skills against translators in other subtitle groups. Although several American TV dramas have appeared on domestic TV channels, they are aired months, even years, after their initial US airing. As a result, people like Huang have become frontline ambassadors of culture. They decode and interpret American language and idiom for a Chinese audience.Netizens have been quick to recognize the work of these translators, calling them "living Lei Fengs".Fu Yu, a 23-year-old studying at Bonn University in Germany, said watching subtitled dramas introduced him to a new world. "Under their influence, I become more open-minded to different viewpoints and lifestyles," Fu said.Despite their best effort, these "living Lei Fengs" don’t always interpret the dialogue correctly. "Translators who don’t have a systematic understanding of American culture may find it hard to convey the intended emotions," said Lin Yuyin, a professor at the School of Translation and Interpretation at Sun Yat-sen University. Translating word for word and being too vague are other common errors in the subtitle groups’ work, Lin explained.Although the translators are proud of their work, few would dare list it on their resumes. After all, they are well aware of the legal questions raised by their work.Last month, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, along with the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Copyright and several new media copyright owners and publishers, launched a campaign to end illegal sharing of music and video online in China. Portals like Youku.com are being sued by licensed online distributors like Sohu.com."We’re concerned about this," said Luo Tianyi (not his real name), the 27-year-old leader of the "Ragbear" subtitle group. "If video-sharing websites are shut down, we’ll lose a big platform to share our work. We’re also worried that our websites could be the next target."Thankful viewers are also worried. "We really appreciate the translators’ help, but we don’t want to talk much about it," Yu said. "We’re afraid that if we express our thanks too frequently and obviously, they will be wiped out. Then we will miss out on a lot of fun."
