Students remember rescuer
A memorial ceremony was held at Fudan University last week to mourn the loss of Anhui policeman Zhang Ninghai. Zhang died while rescuing a team of 18 mountain climbers, most from Fudan University, who strayed into a restricted zone on December 13 at the Huangshan Mountain. To Tang Qingwei, a 22-year-old Fudan University senior who was one of the organizers of the hike, last week was a life lesson.In an interview with the China Youth Daily, Tang admitted that the students panicked in the face of questions from swarms of reporters and ended up saying nothing to the press the day they left the mountain.The students left the group of bewildered journalists behind as they got into a van, slammed the door shut behind them, and went on their way back to Shanghai, according to the Oriental Morning Post. The students’ lack of remorse for the loss of life unleashed a torrent of criticism. Meanwhile, Tang said that he still clung to the thought that the tragedy was merely an accident. And he tried to put out a report of the incident to prove it.“I chose to avoid our responsibility to admit our wrongdoing,” said Tang. “Instead, I tried to make a defense about technicalities, which now I think was very naive.”In a post on an online community the rescued students discussed how to handle the media and PR crisis rather than feeling guilty about their behavior. This made matters even worse and triggered more anger at the students’ “indifference”.Phrases such as “lack of gratitude” and “giving the cold shoulder” were used in news headlines to describe the Fudan students’ behavior. Tang lost sleep over personal attacks on his social networking site. According to the China Youth Daily, one of Zhang’s relatives called him and told him that Zhang’s parents didn’t blame the students for the loss of their son. But Tang was told that they should step up to say something for the sake of the dead policeman and his family.Tang wept after hanging up the phone. Now he was fully aware that it was their behavior, accidental or not, which led to Zhang’s death.“We have to face it; there is no escape,” said Tang.Tang went back to Anhui to attend Zhang’s funeral and got on his knees in front of the parents who had lost their son.Over the weekend, Tang and his teammates wrote letters of apology online. The once ferocious media changed its tone and expressed more understanding and support.According to the Beijing Youth Daily, the public was disappointed at first because the students didn’t give a timely response to being rescued. Now in the glare of publicity the students can step forward and face criticism, which would be a valuable lesson for them in the future.Having been through all this, Tang said that he is not afraid any more. “Now I feel relieved that I am taking responsibility for my actions,” said Tang.According to an article on his social networking site, Tang and his teammates have decided to raise funds for police officer Zhang’s parents. They will plan to set up scholarships at the school where Zhang was enrolled.“Zhang’s parents lost a son. Now they will have 18 sons and daughters,” said Tang.
