Stressful family reunions
As Chinese lunar new year approaches, going back home to stay with family members becomes the recurring and eternal theme of the festival.For many young people, it is not only an occasion for a warm reunion, but a stressful and expensive time.“I’m reluctant to return to my hometown in Shandong, and now the trouble is how to tell my parents,” said Luo Jingjing, 28, an employee who has lived in Shenzhen for five years.Luo, who is under pressure at work, said that she wanted to relax and chill out during her holidays.“I would face even more stress at home”, she said. “My parents and relatives keep pushing me to get married before I’m 30. We’ve already had many quarrels over boyfriends.”It’s unrealistic for Luo who is single to take a fake boyfriend home like in the movies or in TV dramas. Her marriage status will be an inevitable topic of conversation at home.Luo is not the only one to feel under pressure if they go home during the Spring Festival. Nearly 70 percent of people living in six major cities including Beijing and Shanghai have “woes about going home during the Spring Festival”, according to a recent survey by the China Association of Social Workers.The causes include travel fatigue, financial pressures and emotional stress, according to the survey.For some new graduates, the return home presents some financial and emotional problems.Those in their 20s are not yet financially secure, so gifts and envelopes stuffed with cash are beyond their means.Chen Jiayi, who works in Shanghai and earns a 3,000 yuan a month, could not afford to go to home to Xinjiang for the Chinese lunar new year.“Travel tickets plus buying gifts for my relatives would cost me two months’ pay,” she said.However, for many, the contrast between reality and expectations becomes another factor to remain in the big cities.Sun Lingling, 25, who landed a job in Shanghai two years ago, found homecoming a dreadful emotional experience.“I was exhausted traveling from Shanghai to Shaanxi. Friends who hadn’t been in touch for a long time wanted to know about my life.“They asked if I had a car or an apartment,” said Sun who had mixed feelings about their curiosity.Huang Xi, who graduated from Peking University, has the same problem. He has worked as a civil servant in Xiamen for two years.He wavered about returning home to a small town in Jiangxi. “In the past, everyone asked about whether I was going to be promoted,” said Huang.He thought that his return home only increased his elderly relatives’ anxieties. “Watching their disappointed expressions, I would feel at a loss.”He Ming, a professor of sociology at Shenzhen University suggested young people should return home with an open mind.“Just realize that everything springs from a family’s concern,” he said. “Young people should think about enjoying their families’ love and care.”Experts also notice many young people only return home once a year. The result is that families tend to focus on discussing big issues and ignore basic emotional communications between parents and children.“If you go home more often, you could understand each other better and communication would be easier,” said Zhao Peng, vice president of the China Association of Social Workers.
