Danes do pleasure best
What words do you use to describe that feeling of enjoying a warm, delicious home-cooked dinner with your loved ones on a cold, snowy winter night? Besides “cozy”, “relaxed”, “*snug” and “pleasant”, there is a new word on offer –“hygge”.The UK’s Guardian newspaper recently reported that Britain has been invaded by the concept of “hygge”. The Danish word, pronounced “hoo-gah”, has no exact English *counterpart but can be *loosely translated as “coziness”, and is said to be the secret weapon that makes Denmark the happiest nation in the world. It is now the subject of dozens of books and hundreds of newspaper features. It’s also become the latest lifestyle trend and has been used in recipes, gift ideas, and home decoration tips for the holiday season.The word is shortlisted by both the Collins and the Oxford Dictionaries as the word of year for 2016, and the BBC reported that the Morley College in London has even started a course teaching its students how to achieve hygge.According to The Guardian, the word means “a feeling of calm togetherness and the enjoyment of simple pleasures”. The Independent says the concept of hygge describes “a feeling of comfort and *contentment, as well as *indulging in all the good things and people in your life”. A BBC article lists a few “hyggelig” (adjective form of the word) activities: “Sitting by the fire on a cold night, wearing a woolly jumper, while drinking *mulled wine and stroking a dog –probably surrounded by candles”. “Eating home-made *cinnamon *pastries. Watching TV under a *duvet. Tea served in a china set. Family get-togethers at Christmas” –these are all hygge too.For the Danes, “hygge” is how they deal with the harsh climate –the Nordic country is plunged into around 17 hours of darkness a day in winter. Susanne Nilsson, a Danish lecturer at Morley College in London, explains to the BBC: “We have long, cold winters in Denmark. That influences things. Hygge doesn’t have to be a winter-only thing, but the weather isn’t that good for much of the year.“Hygge could be families and friends getting together for a meal, with the lighting dimmed, or it could be time spent on your own reading a good book,” she adds. The essence of hygge, it seems, is all about letting your hair down and forgetting about life’s worries.The Danish people proudly see hygge as an important aspect of their national characteristic. According to Denmark’s official tourism website VisitDenmark.com, “Hygge is as Danish as pork roast and it goes far in illuminating the Danish soul.”Hygge may have provided the answer for those pursuing happiness. “The rest of the world seems to be slowly waking up to what Danes have been wise to for generations - that having a relaxed, cozy time with friends and family, often with coffee, cake or beer, can be good for the soul,” says Helen Russell, UK-based author of The Year of Living Danishly: Uncovering the Secrets of the World’s Happiest Country (2015). “Hygge seems to me to be about being kind to yourself –indulging, having a nice time, not punishing or denying yourself anything. All very useful come January when in the UK everyone’s on diets or *manically exercising or *abstaining from alcohol.”
