Art film prodigy
Everyone is talking about Adele’s highly-anticipated comeback single Hello. But much of the chatter is not even about the singer herself, or the song she created. Xavier Dolan, the maverick music video director, is stealing the spotlight.The Quebecois filmmaker had just turned 20 when he presented his first directorial effort, I Killed My Mother, at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival. He also wrote and starred in the film, which is a semi-autobiographical psychodrama about a young homosexual at odds with his mother. Dolan’s debut won three awards from the Director’s Fortnight program at Cannes and received an eight-minute standing ovation as well.Hubert, the main character from I Killed My Mother, shouts in a pivotal scene, “Stop comparing me to kids my age! I’m not like them!” This could be said of Dolan himself.He lives his life in a free way. He identifies himself as gay. He grew up acting. He has even appeared on a number of Canadian TV shows since age 4. Eight-year-old Dolan once wrote a letter to US actor Leonardo DiCaprio to express his admiration and to relay his wish to act together with him.Dolan’s love of acting then pushed him toward a career in directing. “At 14, there were no auditions. Nobody was employing me, so I became my own employer... I missed acting. When I wrote I Killed My Mother, it was obvious to me that no one else could play this role. And I’m not questioning people’s talent. I’m just thinking no one else can play this role since it’s my life,” Dolan told AskMen, in an interview about how he switched from acting to directing.He directs with an unconventional style. When he was directing the drama Heartbeats, he had no clear vision for the film’s final look. “It’s kind of impulsive and unconscious sometimes. The vision is not that precise. It’s in my mind, and we do things, and it just happens that it resembles what I had in mind,” he said to Interview Magazine.His latest feature, Mommy, demonstrated Dolan’s mastery behind the lens. The film is about a widowed mother and her violent son, and it won the Jury Prize at Cannes last year. Dolan uses a square 1:1 format which no one has tried before, according to the Hollywood Reporter.Despite his meteoric start in the business, his continually high-caliber output proved that he’s not a shooting star. At the age of 26, he already has five critically acclaimed feature films under his belt.Being perceived as a genius auteur can became a huge pressure for artists. But it doesn’t bother Dolan. “It’s a part of my job to learn to deal with reviews. Wunderkind isn’t derogatory, unless you’re 40 and described as ‘once a wunderkind’,” Dolan said to Slant Magazine.Looking forward, Dolan unsurprisingly has no clear plan. He told Billboard, “I don’t really have an agenda. I don’t really have goals.”Inside this prodigy lives an untrammeled soul. That may just be the source of his creative works.
