Busy life is cereal killer
If you are a fan of US TV series, you’ll be familiar with the morning breakfast routine: Each family member pours a *mound of *cereal into a bowl, adds enough milk to send it flowing over the top, before getting stuck into their *sugary start to the day.For generations, cereal has been the *bedrock of the American breakfast, but it now seems to be losing some of its momentum. Sales of breakfast cereals in the US have gone *stale, owing to concerns about the morning food’s lack of nutrition, as well as a rise in demand for more convenient options for those constantly in a hurry.There’s nothing new about cereal being labeled less than nutritious and too high in calories. Critics for years have been saying that some cereals are *laced with too much sugar.But the consumer’s desire for a healthier way to start the day is now at its highest ever.Shoppers are seeking out “high *protein and fiber content and natural ingredients,” the US-based research firm Mintel Group Ltd said in a report. “Consumers today believe cereal is overly processed and doesn’t contain enough nutrients.”That means cereal is facing *stiff competition from fresh fruit, yogurt, breakfast bars and drinks, and even all-day breakfast meals at McDonald’s or other fast-food chains.“Consumers are increasingly seeking products that match their personal definition of real food, and that can mean foods that are less processed and have simple labels with recognizable ingredients,” Kendall Powell, chairman of the US-based food company General Mills, said at an investors’ conference in July.Another big challenge for the industry is the ever-changing pattern of breakfast eaters, with an emphasis increasingly being placed on satisfying time-squeezed lifestyles. This desire for convenience seems to be especially evident among millennials – those aged 18 to 34. When Mintel surveyed consumers last year, 39 percent of millennials said that cereal was inconvenient because it involved cleaning a dish afterward.“Millennials want something quick and simple in the morning, and they love variety,” said Craig Bahner, president of US morning foods at Kellogg Co.Then there’s the issue of price. Brand-name cereal prices jumped after the financial crisis in 2008, owing largely to the higher prices of grains and other *ingredients. It’s only in the last two years that prices have stabilized.However, manufacturers and industry analysts say that if breakfast cereal makers can keep on adapting to changing consumer needs, especially among millennials, the business can grow again.“While millennials may look at breakfast differently, they are still eating a lot of cereal, just not always for breakfast,” said Jim Murphy, president of General Mills’ cereal division. “According to Nielsen data, ready-to-eat cereal is in 90 percent of all households and nearly 94 percent of millennial households. For this group, cereal is more than just a breakfast item, it is also a popular snack option.”
