Fighting ‘Big Soda’
Sugar is not good for our health. But you may reason that a single can of Coke every day won’t do you much harm. After all, with exercise, you can burn off the calories from that can of Coke anyway.If this is your way of thinking, then congratulations! You are Big Soda’s ideal consumer.The term “Big Soda” refers to two soft drink companies: Coca-Cola and Pepsi. American soda consumption has experienced a sustained decline. In China, however, it’s a different story. According to a Xinhua News Agency report, Coca-Cola’s soda sales went up 10 percent in the second quarter this year compared to the same time last year.Increases in soda consumption can be worrisome to health experts. In her recent book Soda Politics: Taking on Big Soda (and Winning), New York University nutrition professor Marion Nestle makes a fiery case against the soda industry. She says it’s all right if you drink sweet drinks occasionally. But drinking it every day is “plainly unhealthy”.According to The Economist, one large study cited in Nestle’s book “found that for each [12-ounce] can added to a person’s daily diet, the risk of diabetes jumped by 22 percent. There are also links between sugar and heart disease, obesity, stroke and cancer”. Unlike fruits or even a Big Mac, sweet drinks have no nutritional value. A 12-ounce (340-gram) can of Coke, for example, has 140 calories and 39 grams of sugar but no protein or fiber.Nestle also points out that drinking a lot of soda has a broader cost. Chronic diseases caused by unhealthy diets can create a burden for a country’s healthcare system.Increased health awareness has turned a lot of US consumers against soda. On a political level, lawmakers are also waging a war against Big Soda. Thirty-three US states are taxing soda or sugar-sweetened drinks, while some are considering introducing warning labels for soda ads and soda products.But soda companies won’t just sit quietly and let their profits dwindle. “Soda companies spend billions on marketing,” writes The Economist. Thanks to celebrity endorsers, advertising campaigns have helped Coca-Cola and Pepsi become some of the world’s best-loved brands.According to The New York Times, soda companies also use “armies of lobbyists to persuade cities, states and Congress not to crack down on sugary drinks”.The Times points to Philadelphia as an example. When the mayor sought to impose a new tax on sugary sodas in 2011, the soda lobby offered a big donation to the city’s children’s hospital and “successfully lobbied the City Council to let the proposal die”.The Times also provides a second example. In New York State in 2010, governor David Paterson proposed a 1-cent-per-ounce tax to be paid by the bottlers or distributors. The soda industry responded with “an advertising campaign describing it as an unfair tax that would cut into family food budgets,” reported The New York Times. The tax proposal then fizzled out.
