Barefoot Run Ends in Bahamas
This time, “Barefoot Bandit” Colton Harris-Moore was caught.Early Sunday, after Mr. Harris-Moore had fled across the continent, the police in the Bahamas arrested him after they shot out the engines on his stolen boat and roared up beside him in open waters in the middle of the night. He had vanished from a halfway house in the Seattle suburbs in 2008 and begun eluding repeated efforts to track him in the dense forests of the Northwest.American authorities said it could have been the success of Mr. Harris-Moore’s trek itself — making it all the way to the Bahamas — that ultimately led to his downfall. “It was inevitable that he would make a wrong move. He was in a different culture. He probably stood out,” Sheriff Bill Cumming of San Juan County in Washington said.While Mr. Harris-Moore had thousands of followers on Facebook — and his mother has hired a prominent entertainment lawyer to field proposals about his tale — his victims saw little romance in his spree.“It was always in the back of your mind, you’re kind of wondering, when’s the next one coming?” said Scott Lancaster, who owns a hardware store on Orcas Island, Wash., that the police believe Mr. Harris-Moore burglarized twice, once stealing bolt cutters and $4,000. “It’s a bit unsettling. We were all locking our doors and we never had before.”By the time the sun came up on Sunday, Mr. Harris-Moore was shackled and wearing a bulletproof vest as he was escorted to jail. His feet were still bare on the hot Caribbean concrete.A statement by the Royal Bahamas Police Force noted that their search “lasted for all but seven days.” Joel Lewis, 73, a cabdriver in Nassau, was at the airport when Mr. Harris-Moore was brought in by police airplane from Eleuthera. “I was asking, ‘What are all these police doing all over the place?’ Then I hear it’s just for one guy!” he said. “He wouldn’t raise up his head at all. He was walking with it down.”Mr. Lewis said the plane was met by local police who boarded the plane and chained Mr. Harris-Moore. Mr. Harris-Moore was wearing short pants and shuffling with shackles around his ankles and handcuffs behind his back.He was in court in Nassau on Tuesday. He faces dozens of charges in the United States, including a federal warrant on charges of stealing a plane last fall in Bonners Ferry, Idaho.It was unclear how soon Mr. Harris-Moore might return to face charges in the United States.
