Honoring the past
This week, across the Pacific, Americans are busy polishing off slices of turkey and pie, as part of the annual Thanksgiving holiday.When the fourth Thursday in November rolls around, Americans gather around their dinner tables, appetites in tow, to re-live the 1621 Plymouth feast. It’s a celebration of the country’s Pilgrim ancestors, who escaped religious persecution in England by sailing to Plymouth.The first Thanksgiving is depicted as a rosy affair: grateful Pilgrims break bread with their newfound Native American friends. But there’s renewed interest in muddying this tidy narrative. After all, colonization didn’t end so cheerily for Native Americans.The character of Squanto, for instance, is portrayed in Thanksgiving stories as a kind-hearted indigenous translator who shared helpful farming tips with the Europeans. But what most stories fail to mention is how bleak Squanto’s life really was.Europeans had previously captured Squanto and forced him into slavery. That’s how he was able to speak English when the Pilgrims arrived. The arrival of European diseases also left Squanto without a home. His community of Patuxet had all but died out.The reaction against Thanksgiving–as a sanitized, European-focused holiday – started decades and decades ago. Native American groups have been celebrating “Un-Thanksgiving” since the 1970s. The celebration started as a protest to protect indigenous rights.But this year, mainstream media organizations like Buzzfeed and the National Geographic Channel are confronting the myths surrounding Thanksgiving. The four-hour Saints & Strangers miniseries is National Geographic’s attempt to go “beyond the familiar historical account of Thanksgiving”.“So many people celebrate Thanksgiving every year, but I think most people have no idea what the story is behind it,” Saints & Strangers star Kalani Queypo told Indian Country Today.Thanksgiving isn’t the only holiday to be criticized for its simplistic depiction of colonialism. Columbus Day, the October holiday that celebrates explorer Christopher Columbus, is also coming under fire.Columbus is famous for “discovering” the New World. But historical documents show that he helped expand the slave trade to the Caribbean by using violence against the native people.Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Missoula, Montana, marked 2015 by replacing Columbus Day with Indigenous Peoples Day. Even the Los Angeles city council considered dumping Columbus Day this year, according to the Los Angeles Times.“Los Angeles is the most culturally diverse city in the United States, and we must find a way to honor the profound sacrifices made by countless tribal members through the centuries,” city council member Mitch O’Farrell told the newspaper.Some other countries are also questioning how to remember their colonial past. On May 26, Australia observes National Sorry Day, which commemorates the aboriginal children who were taken from their homes to be “re-educated” with Western culture.
