Perks of a perfect fit
Now that summer is in full swing, it’s time to throw on a cool, laid-back outfit. A T-shirt and jeans will work perfectly for most occasions. White denim and floral print jeans are said to be fashion staples, being flexible, versatile and easy to pair with. But the lingering question is: What type of jeans do you look best in? Though this is largely down to your personality and personal preference, we’ve gathered a few useful tips to help enhance your shape. Take a look.Boyfriend jeansBaggy, cool, effortless, and comfortable – boyfriend jeans are still in fashion. They came about as a modified version of the corresponding men’s garment. Boyfriend jeans have a fairly slouchy fit at the hips and are loose but slightly more fitted on the legs. For a relaxed look, these are the ideal option, according to thetrendspotter.net.Dressing tips: You can dress them up with a pair of polished high heels for a more feminine look, or go completely casual with your favorite sneakers. Either way, they will look downright cool. Try cuffing these jeans with two or three folds to complete your relaxed yet chic look.Straight leg jeansStraight leg jeans are classic and offer the perfect fit (not too loose or baggy). There’s just no messing around with a pair of jeans that’s straight and to the point. They make your legs look longer without highlighting your hips too much. If you’re a minimalist, don’t hesitate to gear up for straight leg jeans.Dressing tips: You can always combine these jeans with a leather jacket and any T-shirt. They look great with a pair of oxfords, stilettos, or even ballet flats.Flared jeansFlared jeans are still going strong this year. Flares become wider from the knees downward, forming a bell-like shape around the lower legs. If you’re looking for a pair of jeans to lengthen your legs and balance your hips, flared jeans are a good choice.Dressing tips: Flared jeans evoke a 1970s style. Suggested by thebestfashionblog.com, you can combine them with feminine garments, like a cute blouse with bows. To complete your vintage style look, you could add a blazer and  wedge heels.Skinny jeansSkinny jeans always look perfect. It is a style that stays in fashion and becomes more and more popular every season. “That in itself should be telling enough,” said thetrendspotter.net. Skinny jeans have a snug fit through the legs and end in a small leg opening. So if you want to lengthen your leg line and look slim, buy a pair of skinny jeans.Dressing tips: You can team them with ankle boots if you want to wear a shorter top. Alternatively, wear them with loafers or ballet flats and a tunic if you want to cover your upper thighs. The cuff on these should be thinner and less noticeable. A half or one fold will help elongate your legs and add a bit of chicness.
