Smart or self-obsessed
John Rico is a self-quantifier and he says being one has improved his life.Every one of us wants to live a better life, but what is a self-quantifier, exactly?Well, if you have a smartphone with apps tracking your daily activities like spending, exercise, or keeping a calorie diary to help manage your weight, then you might well be on your way to become a self-quantifier.Self-quantification is, at its most basic, maintaining performance statistics or data about oneself.Rico, a US writer, takes self-quantification to another level that it almost has become an obsession.In a recent article he wrote for Salon magazine, Rico admits that he not only tracks both exercise and spending, but on his iPhone, he also has specific apps that track the water he drinks, sleeping cycles, moods, the last time he communicated with friends, and how much time he spends watching television. “Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, my iPhone is pushing, fetching and recording data about myself,” he says.“Indeed, I even go so far as to have a constantly running timer app that I have to click every time I change activities, with the app providing me with up-to-the-minute reports on how I’ve spent my time.”Sounds crazy? And what a waste of time tapping away on a phone to record trivial details while the important parts of one’s life pass by.But Rico offers his defense. He points out that self-quantification is about trying to exercise a certain amount of self-awareness through data to become a better person. Data allows us to measure performance, to observe trends, and to inculcate new habits into our lives.Rico says that our perceptions of ourselves are far different from what actual data about ourselves might show.His mood app is a good example in point. A while back, the writer considered himself to be somewhat depressed. But when he used an app to record his mood, day by day, it was almost always happy.It turns out that he was simply focusing more on the bad days, and ignoring the good days. The mood app helped him see and value the brighter side of life.Self-quantification also helped increased Rico’s productivity as a writer. He believed he was hard working enough on his new book, but then he started tracking how often he wrote, and realized he was only thinking about writing. Further self-quantification of those periods when he did do writing allowed him to recognize what time of the day he was the most productive, which in turn allowed him to make adjustments that improved his productivity.His activity timer helped his life become more fulfilling. Rico says it revealed that no matter how busy he thought he was – work, writing, and friends, and the activities of taking care his family — he still had large unproductive pockets of time. Realizing that better management of this time meant he could take on a new hobby, he started applying to PhD programs.The main criticism of self-quantifiers is that it’s a decadent indulgence of the self, Rico says.Perhaps in a world of social networks which pay so much attention to one’s self, the last thing we need is to also record data about ourselves.But self-quantifying is anything but indulgent, Rico points out. Rather, “it is about deflating the self, breaching the fantasy assumptions about ourselves by introducing disruptive cold hard facts, facts that often demonstrate we’re actually not what we thought.”
