Separate tastes
Chinese food is not a foreign concept to the United States. But in the past, certain recipes have gotten lost in translation.The latest example is the Chinese smashed cucumber trend that has recently popped up in New York City.The New York Times reported that many of Manhattan’s restaurants now offer smashed cucumbers dressed with sauces such as sesame oil with garlic and yogurt.Julia Goldberg, a sous-chef at Superiority Burger in the US, told The New York Times: “There’s something about the roughness, and the variety of shapes and sizes, that you get with smashing that is incredibly satisfying.”This isn’t the first time that US chefs have embraced Chinese cooking techniques, while steering away from original ingredients. Nor will it be the last.As a child, I became friends with two Chinese girls and had the unique experience of eating dinner at their house. Their mom made rice, dumplings, different kinds of vegetables and pork. I had never tasted such delicious Chinese food, not even in restaurants.What I had when I ate out was sweet and sour chicken, dumplings, crab rangoons, miso soup and noodles. Those dishes might not sound all too uncommon in China, but the difference is uncanny.Chefs in the US lean on flavors that American taste buds are attracted to, but by evolving the taste in this way, the original Chinese recipe is sometimes ignored.General Tso’s Chicken, chop suey and fortune cookies are among the most popular Chinese dishes in the US. However, “Chinese people don’t crack open fortune cookies after every meal... Most Chinese people don’t even know what chop suey actually is,” Shanghai-based journalist Jamie Fullerton told Business Insider.“In the 19th century, what we call Chinese food in the US... was a lot of seafood, shark fins, bird’s nests, and a lot of shrimp,” Yong Chen, author of Chop Suey Nation: The Story of Chinese Food in America, told Yahoo Food. “But American diners rejected that.”Chefs specializing in Chinese cuisine want Americans to try their food. So they changed the ingredients, the cuts of meat and the presentation to suit American palates.This is a cultural compromise to make consumers happy. At the same time, they are turning the food into something less Chinese and more American.
