Tricky headline trap
The Internet is full of headlines that grab your attention with buzzwords. But often when we click through, we find the content hardly delivers and wastes our time. We close the page, feeling we’ve been deceived.In Chinese these types of headlines are called “biaoti dang”. In English, they are referred to as “click bait”.In some worst-case scenarios, click bait might lead a user to a page full of advertisements or to a completely different website. Click bait exists in mainstream websites too, and they’re just as irritating there.A post on Yahoo.com describes a click bait article on BusinessInsider.com. The headline reads: “This phrase will make you seem more polite”. First, when you click through, you find the article has a different headline: “Four words to seem more polite.”Then, on reading the article, you find out it’s actually an essay about the virtues of empathy. And what of the four words? They’re “Wow, that sounds hard.” Why not just put those words in the headline to save us all time?Or, on some video websites, you might encounter headlines such as “Here’s what happens when six puppies visited a college campus”. You would expect the puppies to have wreaked havoc on the school, right? Turns out it’s just some completely uneventful dog footage.Nowadays, with the popularity of social media, many news outlets tweet click bait links to their stories. These tweets take advantage of the curiosity gap (“you won’t believe what happens next!”) or attempt to draw the reader into a story using a question in the headline.These click bait headlines are so annoying that some good Samaritans are attempting to save people time by exposing news outlet click bait through social media. The Twitter account @SavedYouAClick, run by 25-year-old media professional Jake Beckman, is one such example.Trash filterA Reuters blog explains Beckman’s method: He grabs tweets linking to a publication’s story, and then he retweets them with a click-saving comment.For example, recently CNET tweeted “So iOS 8 appears to be jailbreakable but...”, with a link to its coverage of Apple’s product announcements. Beckman retweeted it with this comment appended: “... it hasn’t been jailbroken yet.” When Business Insider’s Twitter tried to entice readers with, “A former Navy SEAL explains how to escape a dangerous situation,” Beckman read the story and distilled its essence: “Run away. Fast.”Since founding the account in May 2014, Beckman’s Twitter experiment has brought him more than 131,000 followers. According to a Reuters blog, Beckman monitors more than 100 websites. In an interview, Beckman told Vice that @SavedYouAClick is “just my way of trying to help the Internet be less terrible.” Asked about his goal, he said, “I’d love to see publishers think about the experience of their readers first. I think there’s an enormous opportunity for publishers to provide readers with informative updates that include links so you can click through and read more.”
