Surviving in private companies
Handsome pay, professional training, good benefits – appealing packages offered by large multinational and state-owned companies make them the most desired employers among college students. But according to the annual graduate survey by employment research company MyCOS, about half of all graduates will end up working for privately-owned enterprises in 2010.So, since there’s a big chance you’ll work for a privately-owned company in the future, why not prepare yourself so you will know how to survive and excel? Here, graduates and HR experts share their advice:‘They tried to shirk their responsibility’Zhang Qian, 27Working for the World Youth Games, to be held in Singapore this year; used to work for a large privately- owned high-tech company in Beijing for nine months After getting his master’s degree in computer science from Beijing University of Technology in 2009, Zhang signed a job contract with a Nasdaq-listed private company in Beijing. The HR manager promised him in words that he would get a hukou, or a permanent residence permit in Beijing. But the promise turned out to be an empty one. In addition, the incentive payment Zhang was promised was also cut in half. “I kept urging the company to keep their promise, but they just tried to shirk their responsibility with various excuses,” Zhang complained. Zhang isn’t alone. Many new graduates who work for private companies face similar problems. The best practice is to insist that the company includes everything it promises in the job contract. But if it’s a standard contract that doesn’t include these details, you should ask the company to list the promises in the offer letter. The last option is to take an audio recording of the HR manager’s words. But Zhang doesn’t recommend that students do this, unless there is no other way to solve the problem. ‘Get off your high horse and work’Zhang Minxiao, 29 CEO of his own metallurgical company in Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu province; used to work for a privately-owned enterprise in the same industry in BeijingZhang learned to be “worldly” – to deal with different kinds of people in society.“I believe the work in privately-owned enterprises is more challenging than that in state-owned enterprises. You have to take up several different roles at the same time because of the shortage of labor in these small enterprises,” said Zhang, who worked as the general manager’s assistant in a Beijing-based company. This doesn’t just mean that an employee needs to be versatile. He or she also needs to be skillful in getting along with people of various professions, according to Zhang. “I think one of the biggest problems is that college graduates are too idealistic, or cynical, to adapt themselves to society,” he said.Zhang suggests that college students get off their high horse and do part-time jobs during their college life, especially jobs closely related to people –like handing out leaflets and sales promotion. These work experiences will help students to become “cheeky” in a good way – a quality they will need when working for most privately-owned companies. ‘I had to beg for what I deserved’Wendy Li, 22 Designer with a private art design company in Guangzhou.Li has many things to complain about. First, she didn’t get paid on time. Every month, she had to wait for at least three days after payday to get her basic salary, and for more days to get payments based on the number of pages she had designed.“I feel really bad that I have to ‘beg’ for what I deserve to get after a whole month’s hard work,” Li said. Second, Li said that her company didn’t give her housing funds. Also, she could only get the minimum amount of insurance.Lawyer Liu Haobin said employees should know who to turn to when their rights are impinged. First, he made it clear that according to Labor Contract Law, an employer has to pay the employee an extra 25 percent of their salary if they don’t pay the salary on time. He suggested that Li turn to a labor dispute arbitration committee for help. “The company is also violating laws if the employer doesn’t provide housing funds for the employees. The employees can report the case to the local housing fund administrative center to fight for their rights,” said Liu. As for the insurance, Liu explained that the amount of social insurance the employer provides for employees is based on their average monthly income from the previous year. For new staff, it is based on their first month of income. “If your monthly income qualifies you to be offered social insurance of up to 3,000 yuan per month, and your boss only gives you 1,500 yuan of coverage, you can report the case to the local social security administrative center,” Liu said.
