Gendered language
In countries like the US and UK, where political correctness and gender equality are a big deal, it’s often difficult to describe women. If you don’t pay close attention, you can come off as impolite, or even worse — if you are a man — a sexist jerk.Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg’s “ban bossy” campaign intends to show people that it is unfair to use the word “bossy” to describe women who aspire to take up leadership roles at work.In and outside of work life, there are many other words that have sexist undertones. One of these words is “feisty”.“Feisty” is often used to describe a lively woman with the implication that she is aggressive and gets on people’s nerves.UK actress Daisy Lewis plays an out-spoken feminist teacher in the hit TV series Downton Abbey. While Lewis admits her character is courageous and unconventional, she does not want to be described as “feisty”.In a recent interview with UK newspaper Daily Mail, she said: “Feisty? My least favorite word. Have you heard a male character described as feisty? I think not.”Kudos to Lewis who “has uncovered yet another word that shows the vocabulary gender divide and a wider level of everyday sexism,” says a column from UK newspaper The Telegraph.Feisty“Feisty”, like “bossy”, is one of these words that once had the same meaning for both men and women, but evolved to mean something usually negative when applied to women. The Telegraph column lists a few of them.AmbitiousWhen applied to men, the word describes a positive trait. But when describing a woman, it becomes a dirty word. Even Madonna, in an interview with Harper’s Bazaar, has said she felt “being openly ambitious [is] frowned upon”.EmotionalEvery human being has emotions. While “emotional” can be applied to men, “the word is commonly thrown at any woman who dares mention how she feels, or raises her voice,” says The Telegraph column.The word, together with “moody” and “hysterical”, often appear in the “crazy woman” stereotype, says a Time magazine article.Being a woman, it is impossible to avoid the “crazy” label, says the Time article: “What even is crazy? A woman who expresses opinions? Am I crazy if I yell? Am I crazy if I act like a leader? Whatever it is, it usually doesn’t refer to any kind of real life mental illness.”High-maintenanceThe “high-maintenance girlfriend” with her manicures and love of shopping is a modern day trope firmly rooted in sexism, says The Telegraph column. A guy may be demanding, but he is never “high-maintenance”.PushyClosely related to “ambitious” and “bossy”, “pushy” is another word that sums up gender inequality in the workplace.
