Woven with warmth
A true sign of great style is the ability to “shop smart” and find the staple items you need for each season. For winter, knitwear is one such necessity.Knitwear is both comfortable and affordable. But if you style it incorrectly, it could easily make you look like a tubby teddy bear.Want to keep warm in a stylish way? Here are some knitwear tips to help you look hot even on the coldest days.Waterfall cardiganA waterfall cardigan never goes out of fashion. This type of knitwear is named for the cascade of fabric that tumbles down your front. But the back of the cardigan stays short–a blessing if you have a shapely derriere to show off.It’s a knitwear classic, mainly because you can wear it with anything, according to The Very Blog. It can be paired well with bold clothing items like over-the-knee boots, skinny printed trousers or ripped jeans. Longer waterfall cardigans are particularly slimming. “Make sure [the front] skims your mid-thigh and covers your butt without overwhelming your frame,” said Charla Krupp, a style expert and author of How to Never Look Fat Again.TurtleneckTurtlenecks are having a sudden revival in 2015. Their ubiquitous presence on this season’s runways has upgraded their status from drab to fab, The Huffington Post reported.There are two things you can do to look slim in turtlenecks. First, choose a thick fabric for your turtleneck. Let the turtleneck be the heaviest part of what you’re wearing. Second, avoid wearing large, cumbersome earrings, and pull your hair back, away from your face. A turtleneck’s high collar can risk making your face look cluttered, so don’t over-accessorize.Knitted dressWhat more could you ask for than an all-in-one outfit solution that has both the comfort and style? A knitted dress is a good investment. It takes the stress out of getting dressed in the morning, wrote The Independent.Knitted dress is versatile and can be styled in many different ways, by adding layers, statement jewelry or maybe even a quilted handbag, as The Huffington Post Style Guide suggested. Slip on a pair of high heels to get a classy vibe, or dress down with loafers or chunky boots. You can also add some edge to your outfit with knee-high socks or lace-up boots.Bright jumperFor occasions when nothing less than total comfort will do, a bright-colored, textured jumper is the perfect fix. This year, designers have focused on bold colors and sequins, giving their jumpers extra pizzazz.You’d be surprised how much a bright-colored jumper can lift your mood on a dismal day, the UK-based fashion website myfashionlife.com noted. Mustard yellow and burgundy are popular this season, adding a pop of color to the usual black-on-black theme. Fashion icons like Eva Longoria opt for jumpers with interesting patterns or gorgeous shades of pink.
