That look is so yesterday
Every 10 years or so, it seems, a handful of new looks endure long enough to become accepted as the uniform of a generation. However, once they’ve been universally adopted, the looks are no longer special and they gradually deteriorate into terrible fashion clichés. Let’s take a peek at a few present-day examples.FedoraThe hat style of the 1950s reemerged at the beginning of 2004, when celebrities such as Brad Pitt and Justin Timberlake tossed aside baseball caps and showed men how to wear a fedora with a retro swagger.Today, the fedora is part of the trendy man’s casual uniform. *Droves of young men add the ironically formal fedora to their V-neck T-shirts, skinny jeans and chunky *sneakers for a 1950s, West Coast look. Now, however, the hipster uniform is beginning to both bore and annoy people. 
“When a guy stepped out of my elevator yesterday wearing that look, I wanted to send a text to a friend of mine: ‘When is this look going to go away?’” said Los Angeles fashion stylist Albert Mendonca.Leggings The second skin *tights first made their mark in the fashion world in the 1960s. They became a huge fashion hit in the 1980s, thanks to the 1983 American movie Flashdance.When the leggings made their big comeback in 2005, many felt that the trend would be short-lived. London Evening Standard fashion editor Laura Craik called them “things that only look good on [fashion model] Agyness Deyn”.However, thanks to fashion icons Lindsay Lohan and Kate Moss, leggings remain very much part of the modern fashion *lexicon. But people are now wondering when the “leggings madness” will stop. As American fashion blogger Erin Flynn pointed out: “It is the trend most Tweeters wish would Stop, Drop, and Roll Out!”Uggs The shapeless sheepskin boots were first spotted on the 1970s-era Australian surfers who wore them for post-surf warmth. They were introduced to the US by Australian surfer Brian Smith in 1978.But the boots didn’t hit it big until 2000 when Ugg sent Oprah a pair. The American television host *subsequently ordered 350 pairs, which she distributed among her staff. Three years later she featured pink and blue Uggs on her show and a national trend was born. Viewed as one of the greatest fashion accidents of the 2000s, the boots are now worn by Hollywood celebrities, on and off screen, and have become essential wear for fashionably casual schoolgirls across the US.But it seems that the cozy Uggs’ days are numbered. The boots, and their imitators, are everywhere now, and it appears that people, especially men, are getting sick of seeing them. In a Yahoo poll, one man was quoted as saying: “Girls should not be allowed outside with them.” What’s in? floppy hat A floppy hat is another 70s style making waves. These *flimsy brimmed hats can add a *bohemian flair to any look.  flared jeansIt’s time to put your super tight leggings to rest. This season is all about wide legs.
