China claims top prize in ‘DOTA’ battle
Getting paid to play video games may sound too good to be true. But Newbee, a team of five professional gamers, has proven it is possible. They won the DOTA 2 world championship at the international *tournament in Seattle, US, on July 21, taking home a $5 million (31.2 million yuan) prize.Many have been stunned by the huge sum, but only few know of the team’s *thorny road to glory. 21st Century talked to the newly crowned champions to explore the real story of their lives.Another levelPlaying for fun and becoming a professional gamer are totally different scenarios in the e-sports field. E-sports competitions require quick reaction speeds and incredible multitasking skills.Most professional players see their APM (actions per minute) *surpassing 300, according to Newbee’s manager Tong Xin. That’s an average of five unique actions every second. An average for-fun gamer plays at less than 100 APM.“Let’s just say that of the young men who attempt to go pro, only 1 in 1,000 make it to a professional level,” he says. “The odds of a player becoming a ‘top player’ are less than 1 in 10,000.”Daily routineJust like in athletic sports, training brings perfection, while practicing with top gamers and teams is the best way to *excel. Even so, it’s never easy.Zhang Ning and his teammates train for up to seven hours a day, six days a week to improve their *tactics and work out ways to deal with different gaming situations.But this is only their daily training schedule. Before the international tournament, Zhang and his teammates underwent a whole month of *intensive training. During that time, the team members were gathered in a house in Shanghai. Their cell phones were taken away and they were completely cut off from the outside world.“We got up at 11 am every day and had lunch together. After that, we spent 14 to 16 hours playing DOTA together, not only improving our individual abilities, but also our team work,” says Chen Zhihao, a member of Newbee.Not a career, yetThough professional gamers can earn a *respectable income and bonuses for winning e-sports competitions, playing video games is not considered a serious occupation.There were more than 9 million DOTA players around the world by the end of June, according to official data released by DOTA 2. In China, according to Tong, there are no more than 1,000 professional players.Moreover, professional players’ career spans are short. Many top gamers hang up their control pads well before they hit 30, reported CNBS. Most retired gamers choose to stay in the industry by taking up administrative positions, becoming coaches in clubs, or working as commentators for cyber game competitions, says Tong.What about the future?Winning the tournament is a dream come true for Zhang. It has also boosted his confidence. Being a 25-year-old player in the field is a rare thing and he doesn’t want to retire from professional gaming yet. “I still want to play in next year’s tournament,” he says.
