"Tough women" rise above competition
A submissive and clinging woman, or an unceremonious and independent woman, which one would you prefer? A recent poll shows that most people would choose the latter.This type of woman is called a nühanzi (“tough woman”) and always takes care of herself. Experts believe these characteristics have social and psychological roots among young females in China.Su Hao’s friends all call her a tough woman, because the 19-year-old English major at Shandong University can finish tough tasks usually attributed to men. For example, she carries 10-litre water bottles to her dormitory on the 5th floor and can fix a broken fan. “I depend on no one but myself,” she says.According to a recent survey by China Youth Daily, tough women have become rather common in society. Of the 21,265 respondents, 78.5 percent said they are acquainted with a tough woman. About 50 percent said they like women with tough characteristics, while less than 29 percent expressed the opposite view.Why are tough women gaining popularity? Shen Meng, a certified psychological counselor, believes the fierce competition in society is contributing to this trend.“Women are often in a disadvantaged position compared to men,” Shen says. “In order to survive, they have to be independent, strong and tough.”Liu Xiaolin, professor of psychology at Wuhan Mental Health Center, believes tough women are nurtured this way.“They are often on intimate terms with their fathers, who teach their daughters to be brave and decisive,” he says. As a result, these women are more likely to be psychologically healthy and more tolerant to stress, according to Liu.Though Liu believes that this is a good trend, Hu Shenzhi, a psychologist at the Guangdong Sunflower Counseling Center, says the prevalence of tough woman indicates a blurred line between gender identities, which can lead to relationship problems.“Some women with characteristics that deviate from the traditional female image may have a difficult time finding Mr Right,” he says. “Even if they get married, their manly characteristics might trigger family conflicts.”
