Young mayor comes under fire
There seems to be no end to the problems of Zhou Senfeng, believed to be China’s youngest mayor. On June 21 he was elected mayor of Xiangfan City, Hubei Province. However, his elevation mayoral office has sparked heated debate, both in cyberspace and traditional media, with questions being raised over his family background, the fairness of the election, and even the honesty of his relations.An article suggesting that an essay he published while he was a master’s student at Qinghua University was plagiarized was being read widely on the Internet. The article claims that 50 percent of its content is the work of other authors.To prove it, our reporter downloaded Zhou and his co author’s essay, as well as the article it is suspected they copied from and concluded that the suspicions are well grounded.According to the Morning Post, the Xiangfan Organization Department said that the claims were a matter for Zhou’s adviser or the journal which published the article. The Post adds that the department disclaims responsibility for investigating the allegations.Netizen’s doubts: 50 percent similarity.The anonymous article, which raises the question of plagiarism, was published at 10 A.M. on June 23. It claims that the 29-year-old mayor’s co-authored essay, entitled "Core Competence of Real Estate Enterprises Based on Value China" should be suspected of plagiarism. It adds that there is a 50 percent similarity between Zhou’s article and the article the author suggests he plagiarized.According to information on China Journal Net, the article is the work of Zhou Senfeng and Xie Yue. It was published in Business Studies, 2005, Issue 14, and submitted on March 31, 2004. It has 5,500 characters."Core Competence of Real Estate Development Enterprises" was published in the 2002, Issue 5 issue of the journal. Its 3 authors were all doctoral candidates at Southwest Jiaotong University’s School of Economics and Business Management. One of the authors is Wang Yu. The article has about 4,900 characters.In part 4 of Zhou and Xie’s article 3 paragraphs (about 700 characters) are identical to a passage in Wang and his co authors’ piece.Experts’ opinion: an article in which more than 10 per cent of external content is not properly cited should be considered plagiarism.Our reporter’s efforts to contact Zhou Senfeng and his master’s advisor Lu Hongyu met with failure.Yu Wujin, deputy director of Fudan University’s scholarship committee, said that, even if an article contained 10 percent plagiarized material, if an author had supplied detailed references,  there was a case for leniency.Our reporter found that Zhou and Xie Yue’s article lacks detailed notes but that it does cite 6 references - 5 essays (including that by Wang and his collaborators) and 1 translated work.According to Ministry of Culture regulations, "proper citation" is indicated quotation from or reference to another’s work. Citation should not exceed 2,500 characters or 10 percent of the work. Poems are an exception to the rule.The Xiangfan Organization Department: it was not its but Zhou’s adviser or the journal itself who were responsible for investigating charges of plagiarism.  The Xiangfan Organization Department said that that the claims were a matter for Zhou’s adviser or the journal which published the article. The Post adds that the department disclaims responsibility for investigating the allegations.But one officer, who spoke to us anonymously, said that it was unclear yet whether or not Zhou would be investigated.Zhou Senfeng: no responseWhen our reporter questioned Zhou Senfeng about the charges she received no response. Calls to Xie Yuelai’s mobile phone went unanswered.One of Zhou’s classmates at Qinghua commented that great demands were made of master’s students, who were required to publish two graduation theses. He said that although he was not "defending Zhou", the course was a challenge for all students.Compared with other students, it seems Zhou had less time to devote to his work during 2004, his last year in school, since he took up a temporary post with the Xiangfan Capital Construction Commission in that year.
