Wardrobe for rhythm
The season of music festivals kicks off with May Day holiday. Not only about stars and music, today’s music festival is also about fashion. How to choose the right style for certain concerts is a tricky issue. Whether you are pursuing a chic, hippie or artistic look, check out the following styles to get inspiration.Tribal styleThe wild tribal style gives you an exotic appearance. This fashion trend has spread to music festival stages in recent years. It’s taken over festival fashion with vibrant prints, warm tones and rich accessories, notes stylemotivation.com. The main elements are African-inspired textiles, bold prints and beaded accessories. To make it eye-catching, you can even try a feathered tribal headdress, which uses geometric prints, stripes and beads in a big way, according to The Huffington Post. But in the mixing process, simplicity is the key. Avoid overdoing it with other added patterns like eye-catching jewelry.Hippie styleFor those who want to attend rock festivals, the hippie style is a good choice. Chic and cool, it can reflect your pursuit of freedom and uniqueness because the philosophy of the hippie is “doing your own thing”, wrote an article on hippie24.com. Originally popular in the 1960s, this style is particularly welcomed at Coachella Valley Music Festival held in the US every April. The main elements of hippie style include bellbottoms, wide-brimmed hats, fringes, headbands, beads and decorative necklaces. To pull it off, the key is to “let one thing you are wearing speak the loudest”, hippiecouture.com suggests. For example, if your dress is a wild print, let it be the focus and wear a delicate headband. But if your dress is a solid color, choose chunky rings or a necklace to be the highlight.Bohemian styleIf you want to leave others with the impression that you’re a romantic individualist, try the Bohemian style. Bohemian also refers to “a state of mind regarding fashion that is individual, romantic, and free-spirited”, noted wikihow.com. Having developed into a lifestyle movement, it encouraged the use of simple instruments like drums and basic flutes in the music industry. Gradually, this style has entered the mainstream of music festival fashion, wrote Cailyn Cox from thetrendspotter.net. Many stars like British actress Sienna Miller and model Kate Moss are crazy about it. The main elements include flowers, braided hairstyles and long dresses worn with boots. To look chic, the key is to keep your appearance natural with minimalistic makeup, said Cox.
