Safety under the sun
Umbrellas aren’t just for rainy days. As everyone knows, they’re also great tools for blocking the sun.But picking the right umbrella is tricky. You have to combine scientific know-how with fashion wisdom to make the right selection.To help you outshine others on the streets and effectively protect your skin, here we have some suggestions.1. Understand the UV protection factorJust like sunscreens, parasols are categorized with an ultraviolet protection factor (UPF) level indicating their ability to block ultraviolet rays (UV). UV rays are harmful radiation emitted by the sun and pose dangers to our skin ranging from minute tanning to even skin cancer and cataracts. A parasol labeled as UPF 30+ lets in less than one-thirtieth of UV rays. According to national standards, only umbrellas made of materials that have UPF 30+ and restrict the penetration of UV rays at 5 percent or less are qualified products that can be said to block UV rays. For daily use, you can choose parasols that are labeled at least UPF 30+. But if you stay outside for a longer time, settle for UV umbrellas or UV parasols that are labeled UPF 50+ or above, according to Buzzle.com, a general information website.2. Fabrics matterYou might only consider the pattern of an umbrella to be worth paying attention to, but don’t ignore fabrics! Common umbrella fabrics include satin, polyester, cotton, nylon and other microfiber materials. But studies show that polyester’s ability to block UV rays is better than other materials’. It absorbs and reflects UV rays more effectively.Nowadays, it’s said umbrellas with black coatings inside block the sun better than those with silver coatings. But according to The Mirror, which once did an experiment on umbrellas, their UV-blocking abilities are almost the same. So, don’t throw more money at buying umbrellas with black coatings, as silver is just as good.Also, black fabric is better. The color can absorb the UV rays to the maximum. This year, black umbrellas with colorful patterns inside are particularly popular.3. Consider detailsSome girls might prefer to choose light and small collapsible umbrellas that can be put in their handbags. But you should ensure an umbrella has a wide diameter to provide maximum protection and minimum exposure. Umbrellas with arcs between 50 and 60 inches (about 1.3 to 1.5 meters) in diameter are sufficient. To resist the wind, choose sturdy umbrellas. Look at the number of ribs in the umbrella. The more they are in number, the sturdier the umbrella will be.4. Myths about multipurpose umbrellasMany advertisements and commercials claim that their umbrellas can block both UV rays and the rain. But expert analyzes reveal that once a parasol is used to block the rain, its UV coating erodes. Gradually, it will lose its ability to block the dangerous rays, CCTV reported. So, if you want to keep your parasol long-term, prepare another umbrella for rainy days.
