Source of mutual growth
Speaking of the recipe for love, the ingredients are all too familiar: tolerance, care, integrity, trust and so on. However, theories cannot always fix problems in real life. Here, three couples share their stories on having a relationship with someone from a totally different cultural and social background.CommunicationNo matter how good one’s English is, when it comes to communicating with someone you love, words are sometimes not enough.Zhang Yiqi, a Portuguese major at Shanghai International Studies University is very lucky. Her German boyfriend has been learning Chinese in a language school for a year and can speak Chinese. So they speak Chinese to each other.“His Chinese is not only very good, but sounds like northeastern Mandarin, just like me,” Zhang says. “However, when we encounter phrases from poetry or historic events, our conversations turn into long explanations with both story telling and picture drawing.”Huo Yan, 24, a consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers agrees. She is dating Cedric Durieux, a French man working at China Radio International. Because her French is not that good, they have to speak English to communicate. But sometimes, there are words that she can’t understand. Then they rely on body language or giving a specific explanation, or even searching for a picture on the Internet.FinanceHuo Yan, 24, is a finance consultant based in Beijing. Her ex-boyfriend ticked all the boxes of being a Chinese man in love: paying for bills in the restaurant, taking care of both carrying and buying clothes in shopping malls. However, this behavior made her feel uncomfortable. “I think I would feel less pressured if I didn’t feel like I owed anybody anything,” Huo said.Now, Huo splits the bills for dinner with her French boyfriend and goes shopping by herself. Of course, whenever there is a small gift from her boyfriend on special occasions such as a holiday or anniversary, she is very happy.LifestyleWang Qihua, 23, an English major at Tsinghua University, who has a French boyfriend, can’t understand why her boyfriend only drinks coffee in the morning without eating anything, which she considers unhealthy. Likewise, her boyfriend can’t understand why she always drinks hot water.In the case of such habitual differences, Wang says that as long as they feel comfortable with each other, there is no need to pursue uniform lifestyles.What bothered Wang more were differences in their outlook on life and the future. Studying hard and trying to improve her resume through social work and high grades, Wang thinks it’s important to have a successful career. But her French boyfriend doesn’t seem to care much about the future. “At first, I thought my boyfriend was lazy. He didn’t work as hard as me,” Wang says. Her boyfriend didn’t rush to find internships like many Chinese students.But over time, Wang learned to cut herself some slack and enjoy her leisure time, while her boyfriend started to pay more attention to the future.
