Discover new way to travel
We’ve probably all met someone who likes to boast about how many places he or she has been to. It’s annoying but it’s true that to some people, traveling is all about the number of destinations one has set foot on. But fortunately, the old “been there, seen that” mode is changing.Last year’s travel trend was “experiential travel”. This is where tourists look for ways to get to know local culture and interact with local people so they feel less like an outsider but more like a resident.So what about this year? Can thoughtful tourists get even more out of their traveling experience?Transformative travelTransformative travel is much like “experiential travel”, but takes it a step further.It usually goes through three phases – you go to a place that has a very different background than where you come from, you learn wisdom from the new culture and the people you meet, and finally you return home and apply the knowledge to your own life and the lives of those around you. This last phase is how the “transformation” is completed and what separates transformative travel from experiential travel.“This allows our travelers to start to see the world less in black and white, and to begin to appreciate how nuanced many issues are when seen from very different perspectives,” Jennine Cohen, director of US travel company GeoEx, told Vogue magazine.Go greenAccording to Rebecca Warren, managing editor at Lonely Planet, eco-friendly and sustainable travel will be one of this year’s top trends.One way to plan a low-impact trip is to travel a shorter distance, which can reduce your carbon footprint. “One trans-Atlantic flight equals a year’s worth of driving, so consider planning an adventure closer to home,” suggested Warren, according to US News.Another way to involve sustainability in your travel plans is to choose a destination that will benefit the most from your trip. For example, places like Nepal will enjoy a boost of its local economy from the money it will make through tourism.Disappearing destinationsDestinations at risk of disappearing are also welcoming an increasing number of tourists.Everett Potter, a USA Today writer, says that the Arctic and Antarctic have both become popular destinations since they are under threat of climate change.Another top destination is the Great Barrier Reef in Australia. Due to pollution and global warming, it’s predicted that the reef will be seriously damaged in just a few decades. Travelers are longing to see the coral “before it’s gone or completely changed”, Potter told US News.
