Singaporeans speak out
As an Asian country, Singapore has a reputation for being highly Westernized (西方化的), with English among the country’s four official languages. But a couple of signs found on local buses that have recently gone viral (走红) online may say otherwise.Quite different from the English we are familiar with, the signs read, for example, “Here cannot go in!” instead of “You cannot go in from here”, and “Here can charge phone!” instead of “You can charge your phone here”.This language that resembles (类似) English is called Singaporean English, or “Singlish”.The New York Times calls Singlish a “patchwork (拼凑品)” because Singapore consists of migrants (移民) from a variety of countries, including China, India and Malaysia, and they all speak their own versions of “English”.“Everyone who speaks it shapes it,” wrote the newspaper.For example, in Singlish you can easily recognize influences from Chinese. It includes vocabulary such as “mee siam (米线，rice noodle)” and “da bao (打包，pack food to go)”. Sentence structures like “Toilet where?” instead of “Where is the toilet?” are also adapted from Chinese.Interesting and diverse as it may seem, the trend for Singlish is worrying Sinagapore’s government. It is concerned that the dialect is lowering the country’s English standard and may affect its relationship with foreigners. It even launched the Speak Good English Movement in 2000.But the movement didn’t wipe out the problems as it aimed to. Instead, Singlish has thrived (繁荣), especially among young people who think of it as a sign of being cool and a way to identify themselves as Singaporean.But this doesn’t mean that standard English is being abandoned (抛弃) by young people. In fact, they are much more capable (有能力的) than the government gives them credit (认可) for – many can speak both.“We are a nation good at code-switching (语码转换) – we know that the way we speak to our friends or bus drivers (yes, often in Singlish) has to be different from how we present ourselves in the boardroom or at school,” wrote Cheryl Lu-Lien Tan, a Singaporean author, in Time magazine.“To actively urge us to give up a language that speaks to the very heart of who we are, that so beautifully represents the melting pot of Chinese, Indians, Malays and Eurasians that we are, is shortsighted (鼠目寸光的), surely.”
