Risks of skinny jeans
Skinny jeans are awesome. They’re the ultimate pants for fashion lovers.They suit all body types because they flatter even the most  flawed bottom-half. That’s because they can elongate and slim the leg, and make one’s butt look like an apple.They’re also very adaptable, providing a neutral base upon which people can build an outfit. They tuck into boots easily, and look equally good with heels.However, recently there’s a public crossfire in the US about whether it’s a good idea to wear these sorts of jeans, or if its better we discard pants that are just too tight.There are plenty of horror stories associated with skinny jeans. They range from falling over and not being able to get up again because of how tight the jeans are, to experiencing numbness in the thighs.A latest Wall Street Journal article goes further, pointing out some scary health risks of our favorite skinny jeans.The article listed several symptoms of “skinny jean syndrome” including lower back pain, and in cases where the waistband is extremely tight, digestive issues and blood clots.Friction caused by overly tight pants may lead to bladder infections.Plus, it causes nerve compression. A very tight pant leg can pinch a sensitive nerve in your upper thigh. And it stirs terrible burning and pain.Finally, a strange kind of disfigurement can occur when too-tight jeans force fatty tissue into areas above the knee. This causes horizontal lesions to appear around the thighs. They’ll end up looking like thigh donuts that are ugly.Would you like to become a fashion victim? Or will you opt to upsize your skinny pants a bit?Killer heels and beltsTight jeans aren’t the only fashion item on trial. The Wall Street Journal identified other trendy closet items with a dark side.High heels: result in nerve and bone damage, and ankle sprains.Earrings: produce itchy red rashes and promote infection.Tight belts: reduce oxygen intake, leading to light-headedness.Shirt collars and neckties: can cut off circulation to the brain, producing headaches, blurry vision and ringing ears, if you wear them too tight.
