Top 10 ways to say love
6. Bike weddingAbout 50 cyclists escort bride Song Zhao and groom Liu Yang to their wedding ceremony in Weifang, Shandong province on May 16, 2010.Both the bride and groom enjoy cycling and they fell in love with each other at a cycling outing. The escorts, in red T-shirts and jeans, are the couple’s cycling buddies. To be environmentally friendly, the couple chose to go on bikes instead of fancy automobiles to their wedding reception.7. Subway group weddingNewlywed couples take a ride on Line 1 to experience a "subway wedding" in Shenyang, Liaoning province on Sept 27, 2010. Line 1 started operation on Sept 27, complete with 50 couples on their wedding day.8. Proposal included 999 good wishesIn the most romantic method he could think of, Yang Yuezhong, 27, proposed to his girlfriend on a street in Suzhou on June 3, 2010.He presented her with a banner, on which he had collected 999 good wishes (Nine in Chinese represents “forever”) from passers-by, and he wrote in big Chinese characters, "Meimei, I will love you forever.”9. Underwater proposalMiss Zheng and her friends were waiting to see a man-and-shark dance and a mermaid performance at an underwater theme park in Fujian province on March 7, 2010, when she was surprised by her boyfriend, who showed up in the tank with red roses, a ring and a banner that read, “Marry me.”Zheng was greatly touched and said “yes” on the spot. Zheng’s boyfriend later told media that he knew blue was Zheng’s favorite color and he wanted to give his girlfriend a romantic proposal that she would never forget.10. A marriage made in heavenTwo parachutes appeared in the sky above the Century Square in Wenzhou on Nov 27, 2010. Each parachute was emblazoned with a question. The first read: “River, will you marry me?” and the other carried the same proposal written in Chinese.Rose petals were scattered down from the sky before a little box was dropped contained a ring. Upon catching the box, the hopeful groom, named Shen, went down on one knee to pop the question to his girlfriend, River. Shen said later it took him two weeks to prepare the proposal after asking two friends from a parachute club to his romantic wish come true.
