Rainy day style staples
This past week has been marked by *torrential downpours across the country. But don’t let the *precipitation ruin your personal style. Look around the fashion world, and you’ll find weather-friendly accessories that can withstand even the *soggiest of days.The British brand Burberry, which opened a flagship store in Shanghai two years ago, has become iconic for its line of rubber boots and rain *slickers. US pop singer Ariana Grande was also spotted last year wearing a transparent raincoat while performing on the BBC.But nothing is more timeless than a simple umbrella. With some fashionable twists, you can look as sleek on rainy days as you do on sunny ones.Underside printsIt’s hard to avoid getting mud on your umbrella during rainy days. But why settle for a dull black umbrella, just to avoid getting smudge marks on the *canopy? Thanks to underside prints, you can have all the advantages of an umbrella with a solid-colored exterior, but under the *awning, you get to enjoy custom patterns and designs. The underside of your umbrella can even feature classic paintings, like Vincent van Gogh’s The Starry Night.The bubble umbrellaEver since Blair Waldorf, the Gossip Girl character, strolled through the rain holding a bubble-like umbrella, fashionistas have been *clamoring for a clear, *domed umbrella of their own. As its name suggests, a bubble umbrella is made of transparent material, through which you can easily observe the watery world. Its non-traditional canopy shape also means that it not only covers your head, but also your shoulders.Geek’s favoriteToday’s umbrellas are built with cutting-edge technology. Take the Oombrella as an example. This umbrella, which started as a Kickstarter project, has sensors implanted in its canopy. When it connects to your smartphone, it sends you weather notifications through an app. The umbrella company Blunt has a different high-tech alternative. Some of its umbrellas feature technology from Tile, a tracking device company. Even if you lose the umbrella, you can trace its whereabouts on your phone.
