A price for beauty
Have you heard of the “makeup tax”? It refers to the time and money women spend on their appearances in the hopes of doing well at work. Many career women fear that if they don’t live up to society’s expectations, they will lose out on promotions and pay raises.The “makeup tax” affects a lot of women. US presidential candidate and former secretary of state Hillary Clinton is no exception. Last month, in an online Q&A session on Facebook, Clinton was asked about her morning grooming routine by Libby Brittain, a female Facebook staffer. Brittain complained that she has to spend more than 30 minutes getting ready for work while her boyfriend “zip[s] out the door”.“I wonder about how the ‘hair and makeup tax’ affects other women–especially ones I admire in high-pressure, public-facing jobs,” wrote Brittain, who added that as a “young professional woman” she’d like to know how Clinton handles it while “staying focused on the ‘real’ work ahead”.Clinton acknowledged that the “makeup tax” is a problem. “Amen, sister,” she wrote in her answer. “It’s a daily challenge. I do the best I can –and as you may have noticed, some days are better than others!”Olga Khazan, writing in The Atlantic, thinks Clinton shouldn’t have treated the question so lightheartedly. The “makeup tax” is very real, Khazan says. Women invest time and money into makeup because it impacts their relationships and their careers. Men also use grooming products, but they never have to worry about the price of makeup.According to a Washington Post report, the cosmetics industry makes $60 billion (384 billion yuan) each year in the US. The personal finance website Mint.com claims that the average US woman will spend $15,000 on makeup in her lifetime. Applying makeup also costs time. If it takes you an average of 10 minutes to apply makeup every morning before going to work, that’s an hour per week, or two full days per year.Critics might say, “Just don’t wear makeup!” But few people can afford to ignore society’s expectations. Years of research have shown that attractive people earn more, yet men aren’t expected to wear makeup in order to look good.According to The New York Times, a 2014 study published in the Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology found that both male and female participants thought “regular” women looked best when they applied a moderate amount of makeup. Another 2012 study found that subtle makeup made women seem not only attractive, but more likable and competent. A 2006 study published in the Journal of Applied Social Psychology found that participants were more likely to award “prestigious jobs” to women who used makeup than to the same women when their faces were unadorned.“I wish society didn’t reward this,” Daniel Hamermesh, an economics professor at the University of Texas at Austin and author of Beauty Pays, told The New York Times. “I think we’d be a fairer world if beauty were not rewarded, but it is.”
