Fleeing fame
On the cover of a 2014 issue of Billboard magazine is a woman with a paper bag over her head. The bag bears the following words: “This artist is responsible for over 12 million track sales, has a new single on The Hunger Games soundtrack and doesn’t want to be famous.”The artist is Sia, full name Sia Furler, an Australian singer and songwriter. Her new album, This Is Acting, came out on Jan 28.Now 40 years old, Sia wasn’t always this camera-shy. She used to be a down-tempo indie jazz artist, back in 1997. Feeling burned out, she changed career paths in 2010. Sia decided to step out of the spotlight and become a behind-the-scenes songwriter.Ever since, she has produced a number of hits for various celebrities – Rihanna’s Diamonds, Britney Spears’ Perfume and Beyonce’s Pretty Hurts. She is also one of the writers behind the 2014 FIFA World Cup theme song, We Are One (Ole Ola).But being a songwriter means that sometimes not all of your ideas are appreciated. For example, Sia’s 2011 song Titanium was originally written for Alicia Keys, but she didn’t take it. So Sia ended up singing it herself. “I didn’t think that this music would get heard otherwise,” she said in an interview with Nightline.But she didn’t anticipate that this decision would drag her right back into the spotlight. Titanium soon reached the number-seven spot on the Billboard Hot 100 and sold almost 4 million copies in the US alone.That was when she decided to hide her face.In her music videos and during public events, she hides beneath a bob-cut blond wig and uses 12-year-old dancer Maddie Ziegler as her avatar. When she performed her winning hit Chandelier at the 2015 Grammys, it was with her back to the audience.But this strategy doesn’t seem to work well. Controversies keep popping up around her.Some critics call her hypocritical and say that her unconventional style is a “gimmick”. But she says she refuses to be photographed because she doesn’t want to become “tabloid fodder” and be trapped in the celebrity lifestyle. “It shows the power of saying ‘no’,” she told Billboard.Part of Sia’s confidence comes from the fact she is incredibly talented and productive.She told NPR that it took her only about 40 minutes to write Chandelier, including the chords and lyrics. And when she said it, she said it “nonchalantly, not showing off, just stating facts”, wrote NPR’s Sam Sanders.
