Navigating border security
You may think what you say on WeChat is your own business, but apparently the Canadian authorities don’t agree.Last week, a Chinese student was repatriated at the Canadian customs because officers identified underage pornographic video in a group chat on his WeChat account. His visa was also revoked by the Canada Border Service Agency (CBSA) after the discovery.Sometimes travelers are stopped for having done something dubious to arouse the suspicion of authorities, but this student probably just happened to be part of the custom’s random checks. The CBSA website clearly says, “At any point during your interactions with our officers at a port of entry, you may be referred to our Secondary Services and Inspections area.”While you’re in the area, your luggage is not the only thing that will be put under scrutiny, but also your “purse or wallet, electronics (including laptops and cell phones), your vehicle and any additional goods you are transporting”.In other words, you need to be fully aware of the items you’re not allowed to bring before you travel abroad.Obscene and pirated materialsIn many Western countries, possessing and transporting underage porn is considered a serious crime. According to the United States Department of Justice, for example, a first-time offender charged with producing child porn faces fines and 15 to 30 years in prison. A first time offender of transporting child porn will be fined and jailed for five to 20 years.The website of UK Visas and Immigration also listed pirated copies of movies and music as illegal because they infringe upon intellectual property rights. If you’re caught bringing pirated products into the UK, these products will be confiscated, and you may face prosecution.Food, animals and plantsYou may have heard the news last April about how Johnny Depp’s wife, Amber Heard, was facing lawsuits for taking her two dogs into Australia without declaring them to customs officials.According to Australia’s Department of Immigration and Border Protection, Australia has strict quarantine laws. Animals from overseas could bring diseases and pests into the country and devastate the vulnerable local environment.CashThere is a limit of cash you can bring when traveling abroad. According to UK Visas and Immigration, for example, the maximum amount of cash (including bankers’ drafts and checks) you can bring into the country is €10,000 (72,000 yuan). You’ll have to declare it if you’re bringing more, or you could face a fine of up to ￡5,000 (46,000 yuan).But if you’re entering the UK from another European Union country, you don’t need to declare your cash, no matter how much you have. In fact, a lot of customs rules in the UK only apply when you’re traveling between the UK and non-EU countries.Other itemsCustoms rules vary from country to country. For example, when entering Australia you also need to declare traditional medicines because they may contain endangered plant or animal products. Heritage-related goods, including artworks and stamps, also need to be declared. This is why you should always check the local customs website to make sure of what you can put into your luggage, and of course, your electronic devices.
