Spring break, Florida-style
Florida, the southernmost state in the US mainland, has bestowed many gifts upon the world. It’s the birthplace of the modern air conditioner, site of the largest Disney World and home to a rotating cast of eccentrics, who supply endless amusement to observers the world over.Remember that guy arrested last year for beating one of his employees with a real, live lizard? Yup, that was Florida. And the pilot who illegally flew a gyrocopter to the US Capitol? You can thank Florida for that gem too.Yes, the Sunshine State has done a lot for humanity, including tickling its collective funny bone. But as many American college students can tell you, its biggest contribution may be the phenomenon known as “spring break”.It’s that special time each year when college students are liberated from class for one full week, to rest and prepare for the exam season ahead. Or not. Nowadays, it’s a tradition for students to abandon their dorm rooms for Florida’s white-sand beaches–and, en route, abandon most of their clothes and common sense too.Spring break evolutionIn springtime, Florida becomes the host of a beachside bacchanal for college students, but not so long ago, it was a relatively low-key tourist destination. The rise of the modern spring break and the rise of Florida as a tourist destination went largely hand-in-hand.According to research from the University of New Orleans, college swim teams discovered Florida’s vacation potential back in the 1930s. But other destinations, like Bermuda, remained more popular for college getaways. World War II changed that. With German U-boats patrolling offshore, American students were less inclined to go overseas for spring vacations. Florida’s time had arrived.By the 1950s, novels like Where the Boys Are and articles like Time magazine’s “Beer & The Beach” had established spring break as an excuse to party, and Florida as its capital.With that anarchic spring break spirit comes an iconic spring break style, one that reflects Florida’s own eccentricities. It’s messy and wild and borderline tasteless–fashion’s rebellious answer to prim-and-proper college attire.
