Creative concrete jungles
Most of us would agree that beauty is subjective. A Chinese saying sums it up best: Every lover sees a thousand graces in the beloved.However, in the cases of cities, that beauty is subjective is only a half-truth, argues the Swiss-British philosopher Alain de Botton, famous for his books and TV programs discussing contemporary subjects and themes, with an emphasis on philosophy’s relevance to everyday life.De Botton made his argument in a recently released video from The School of Life, an organization he founded in 2008 that offers a variety of programs and services designed to provide useful insights into how to live a meaningful and happy life.In the video titled How to Make an Attractive City, de Botton says we are getting worse at building beautiful cities.“We think that no one has a right to say what’s beautiful and what’s ugly,” de Botton says, noting that there are “good reasons” no one vacations in Frankfurt, Germany, or Birmingham, England, while Paris and Rome charm tourists from all over the world.“[L]et’s stop being dangerously relativistic about this. Yes, there is such a thing as beauty. Sydney and San Francisco and Bath and Bordeaux have it, and most other places don’t. The proof lies in the tourist statistics.”“We think beauty is subjective, and so no one should say anything about it,” he says: “It’s a very understandable qualm, but it’s also horribly useful to greedy property developers” – the ones who erect hideous skyscrapers and apartment buildings.Rules of beauty“It’s not a mystery why we like some cities so much better than others,” de Botton says. According to him, there are six fundamental rules to follow to make an attractive city:Order and varietyBalance, symmetry, and repetition are pleasing to humans, de Botton argues. A love of order is one of the reasons people love Paris, he says.But excessive order “feels alien”. The key is to create a kind of “organized complexity”.Visible lifeDe Botton argues that people are happiest when they live in densely packed areas where they can interact with other people. But many modern cities are full of dead industrial zones and anonymous office buildings cut off from street life.CompactGood cities are compact, de Botton says. Through the later decades of the 20th century, many big cities built suburbs that lead to isolation, soulless sprawl, and wasted resources.Orientation and mysteryThe best cities offer a mix of big and small streets. A city should be easy to navigate for both humans and vehicles, with big boulevards for orientation and a network of alleyways and small streets to allow us to wander and create a sense of mystery and exploration.ScaleModern cities are all about the big, de Botton says, but the ideal human scale is five stories high. Anything more starts to make humans feel insignificant, small, and trivial.Local influenceCities should not all be the same, de Botton says, city planners need to use locally sourced materials to build architecture that is born from the specific culture, climate, history, and social traditions of a given place.
