‘Nomads’ seeking firm future
Haipiao, a word used to describe young people moving to Shanghai for versatile lives, now has a new interpretation: Chinese striving in a foreign country facing an uncertain future. Their nomadic lifestyle is encouraged by revised visa policies and their desire to develop themselves, usually free from social expectations back in China.A MyCOS survey, among 5,126 college graduates who chose to undertake further study abroad in 2009, found that 43 percent of them planned to stay abroad after graduation, while 31 percent chose to return to China. The rest were not sure what to do. “Their enthusiasm to try their luck in a foreign country is partly due to changes in visa policies,” said Wang Qian from Aoji Enrollment Center of International Education Ltd.According to Wang, in 2008 the UK extended the validation time for the Post Study Worker (PSW) visa from one year to two years. With a PSW visa, international graduates can stay in the country, look for a job and decide on their future path. Changing timesThe US also extended the Optional Practical Training (OPT) period for science and engineering majors to land a job from 12 months to 29 months. If they land a full-time job during that period, they can apply for an H1B work visa that grants a maximum 6-year stay in the US. Besides, Chinese society’s relatively rigid expectations of young people have discouraged some graduates from returning after completing their studies, said Li Jinzhao, director of the Center for Diaspora and Transnational Studies at Beijing Foreign Studies University. “Men in China are expected to be well-established in a career at 30 and women should be worried if they are still single at that age,” said Li, who studied in the US for 12 years before returning in 2007. “To many this seems less attractive than Western culture which encourages more diversified lifestyles.”Liu Xiao (a pseudonym), 30, agrees. He graduated with an MA from the University of Edinburgh in the UK and has been working as an engineer at Broadcom Corporation for four years.He lives in a low-rent room in Edinburgh and is saving for a trip around 10 European countries. “I enjoy my freedom to make travel plans and take holidays,” said Liu. “If I were to go back to China now, I’d be expected to buy an apartment and a car, which would eat up all my money.”However, a nomadic existence overseas is not free from pressure, according to Li Jinzhao.Pressing decisionsThose choosing to stay in a foreign country cannot escape the challenges which face all new graduates, especially when many foreign countries are still struggling with recession and increasing unemployment rates.Moreover, as foreigners, they have to deal with issues such as visas, cultural differences, and finally to decide when their nomadic existence is going to end. Generally speaking, Chinese graduates with 3-5 years’ work experience in countries like the US and the UK are qualified to apply for permanent residence.Liu dreads a “traditional” life path back in China, but he admits that the dilemma of returning home or applying for British citizenship is looming. “I don’t know whether I will settle down in the UK. I have to take family issues into consideration,” said Liu who is single.But another overseas “drifter”, Lin Yanqin, has had a clear plan since graduating from Rikkyo University in Japan with a BA in tourism this March.Working as a website editor in Tokyo, the 24-year-old is using her itinerant lifestyle to improve her CV. “I don’t think I will have a competitive advantage unless I gain work experience here in Japan before returning to China,” said Lin.
