The next big one?
Q1. What is swine influenza?Swine influenza (swine flu) is an acute viral infection of the respiratory tract in pigs caused by type A influenza virus. The mortality rate is low in pigs and recovery usually occurs within 7-10 days. So far three influenza type A virus subtypes: H1N1, H1N2 and H3N2 have been found in pigs.Q2. Can swine influenza infect humans?Yes. Human infections with swine influenza have been detected occasionally since the late 1950s usually in persons with direct exposure to pigs (e.g. people working in pig farms, etc.). In Europe, since 1958 a total of 17 cases have been reported. In the US, an outbreak of swine influenza virus infections in humans was detected in recruits in a military camp in Fort Dix, New Jersey in 1976.A link to pigs was presumed but never discovered. Instead there was extensive human to human transmission, with over 200 infections resulting in 12 hospitalisations and one death.Q3. What are the symptoms of swine influenza in humans?Symptoms of swine influenza in humans are usually similar to regular human seasonal influenza symptoms, involving fever of sudden onset and respiratory symptoms, diarrhoea might also occur.Q4. How do humans get infected?Most commonly, swine influenza is transmitted through direct contact or close proximity with pigs.Secondary cases following human to human transmission have been reported in the past but they are very rare. This virus is not transmitted from eating pork or pork products.Q5. Is there a vaccine against swine influenza?Yes, there is a vaccine available for pigs against swine influenza, but there is no vaccine to protect humans from swine influenza.Q6. Can swine influenza in humans be treated?Most swine influenza viruses have been susceptible to antiviral medications such as neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir and zanamivir).The virus that was currently detected in the US and Mexico is susceptible to neuraminidase inhibitors but resistant to amantadanes.Q7. Why do the situations in the US and Mexico represent a new problem?The novel swine influenza virus that has now been found in the two US states California and Texas and in Mexico contains pig, bird and human genes, in a combination that has never been observed beforeQ8. Is it safe to travel to Mexico, California or Texas?There is no statement from the World Health Organisation (WHO) or the US CDC concerning any travel restriction to the affected regions in Mexico, California or Texas. Persons who intend to travel to Mexico, California or Texas are advised to consult the WHO website and websites of their ministries of foreign affairs or national public health institutes. Q9. What can I do to protect myself if I want to travel to Mexico, California or Texas?Avoiding close contact with people who are sick. When you are sick, keep your distance from others to protect them from getting sick too.Staying home from work, school, and errands when you are sick.Covering your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing. Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it.Washing your hands often will help protect you from germs. 
