Are #OscarsSoDumb?
Her hair crowned with gardenia flowers, Hattie McDaniel climbed onto the small stage at the Coconut Grove nightclub in Los Angeles. She was about to make history.“This is one of the happiest moments of my life,” she told the audience, her voice shaking. A presenter had handed her a little golden statuette. It was the first Oscar ever given to an African-American person.The year was 1940, and the 12th annual Academy Awards were well underway. McDaniel had just won as Best Supporting Actress for her role as the slave “Mammy” in Gone With the Wind.Now, as the 88th Academy Awards ceremony approaches, some critics are looking back at this moment in history and wondering if we’ve really come all that far since then.It’s the second year in a row that all 20 acting nominations have gone to white actors. None of the eight Best Picture nominees this year feature a minority as their lead character. And only one of the nominees for Best Director is a minority – last year’s winner, Alejandro González Iárritu from Mexico.That’s not to say minorities were absent from the year’s critically acclaimed films. Rather, in films like The Martian or The Revenant, minorities play small, supporting roles. The way some see it, they merely serve as the backdrop for the struggles of white heroes.A number of black male actors, who were expected to earn an Oscar nod, didn’t. There was Michael B. Jordan, a 28-year-old American who delivered a star turn in the boxing film Creed. Then there was Idris Elba, a British film icon praised for his role as a warlord in Beasts of No Nation.The largely black cast of Straight Outta Compton and Concussion actor Will Smith were also anticipated to be Oscar darlings. But to no avail: None of these minority performers got any recognition from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which runs the Oscar race.All this has led several prominent Hollywood figures to announce they’ll skip the Oscars altogether. Director Spike Lee, winner of a recent Honorary Oscar, is opting to go to a basketball game instead. Will Smith’s wife, Jada Pinkett Smith, has also declared her family will be staying home.The controversy revived the hashtag, #OscarsSoWhite, which became popular during last year’s Academy Award season. The New York Times film critic Wesley Morris even recommended an updated alternative, #OscarsSoDumb.Some movie industry insiders have fired back at the criticism. They say this year’s crop of minority-led films simply weren’t good enough, or that perhaps they weren’t released with enough fanfare to attract the Academy’s attention.Still, the uproar was enough to draw a reaction from Academy president Cheryl Boone Isaacs, herself a pioneer for diversity. She is the first African-American ever to hold that title.“I am both heartbroken and frustrated about the lack of inclusion,” Isaacs proclaimed. She announced that the Academy would take “historic action” to double the number of female and minority members by 2020. That may help minority artists get enough votes to earn Oscars in the years to come.
