Celebration of ordinary
The latest fashion trend “normcore” isn’t all that fashionable – it celebrates the average and normal.Any old sneakers or sandals; a denim shirt or a black turtleneck, like Steve Jobs’; a zip-up fleece; or a roomy (not baggy) pair of jeans. If you wear any of these, you are the fashion icon of the day, even though you may not be interested in fashion at all.On social networks like Twitter and Instagram, normcore is the Internet meme of the year. Normcore was featured in fashion magazines like GQ and Vogue and was the talk of February and March’s fashion weeks in New York, Paris, Milan and London.The word was first coined by a New York fashion trend-forecasting agency called K-Hole, which recently released the report “Youth Mode: A Report on Freedom”.“Normcore finds liberation in being nothing special, and realizes that adaptability leads to belonging,” announced K-Hole. The basic idea, according to a New York Times article, is that young people have devoted so much energy to trying to define themselves as individuals, that they have lost the joy of belonging that comes with being part of the group.Normcore is about letting go of pretenses and learning to throw yourself into whatever subcultures or activities you stumble into, even if they are mainstream. “You might not understand the rules of football, but you can still get a thrill from the roar of the crowd at the World Cup,” the K-Hole report read.Casual perfectionThe agency described normcore as more of a sociological attitude. But shortly after the release of the report, New York magazine ran a piece that established normcore as a fashion trend, calling it “fashion for those who know they’re one in seven billion”.The concept of normcore is all about the joy of the ordinary, and it has struck a chord with many people. Alain de Botton, the British writer and philosopher, thinks it makes a lot of sense.“Normcore is the search for the ideal,” he said in an interview with Newsweek. “The perfect T-shirt, like the perfect pencil or table, doesn’t need to be constantly updated because it has latched on to the essence of what it’s trying to do. Humans like one-off ideals: one god, one partner. That urge sometimes washes over into clothes: one type of T-shirt. The better the design, the less it needs to change.”Even those in the fashion industry are readily admitting they see the appeal of normcore.US Vogue’s contributing editor Plum Sykes was quoted by Newsweek as saying: “Wearing ‘fashion’ all the time gets too much – and it demands too much attention.”Richard Nicoll, a London-based designer and creative director at the casual clothes chain Jack Will, also sang its praises: “Normcore says, ‘I have soul and intelligence. I’m unique and I don’t need to shout about it.’”
