Belonging and alienation in china
Before he graduated from Huazhong University of Science and Technology this year, 22-year-old Liu Can spent every vacation interning in a different city.“I wanted to experience each of them before settling down in one. They’re all great in terms of career opportunities, but I identified best with the vibrant and energetic vibe of Shenzhen,” he said.Young people like Liu attach great importance to the chemistry they have with a city. It’s a phenomenon so common that researchers decided to investigate what it means to feel a “sense of belonging” somewhere.Academics from Sun Yat-sen University surveyed 22,991 people from seven Chinese metropolises: Chongqing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Beijing, Wuhan, Tianjin and Shenzhen. They found that residents in the first three identify most strongly with their city.The research group divided this sense of identification into four categories, namely cultural, personal, status and regional identification. Put simply, these categories reflect how well a city matches an individual’s needs, both emotional and practical.Finding a city with the right combination of characteristics is valuable for young people, Zhang Zhi’an, dean of the School of Communication and Design at Sun Yat-sen University, told the press. Traditionally, choosing a city involved weighing a number of tangible factors. But nowadays, young people put emphasis on the intangible qualities of a city, which determine how well they fit in, he said.“In a city with strong sense of identity, its residents form a ‘we’ sentiment, recognizing with each other and feeling like part of a larger community,” said Yang Yiyin, a researcher of psychology at Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.Chen Chen agrees. The 26-year-old Hunan-born architect left Beijing for Chongqing after her attempt to get a local hukou, or permanent residence permit, was to no avail. Without a Beijing hukou, people are not allowed to buy an apartment or a car in the city, unless they pay social insurance or income tax for more than five years. But there is no law restricting Beijing locals from making these purchases.“Chongqing, by contrast, allows migrants to buy an apartment without a local hukou. Some even get a hukou because of the real estate they bought. The feeling of being welcomed and accepted is what attracts me more than the city’s opportunity and wealth,” Chen said.
