No more locker room
It all began with one simple tweet.Writer Kelly Oxford, after listening to interviews about the “locker room” and sexual assault took to Twitter and shared – for the first time – the story of how she was sexually assaulted on a city bus when she was 12 years old. She then asked women to tweet their first assault. Within hours, hundreds and then thousands of women took to Twitter to share their stories using the *hashtag #NotOkay.Within three days, over 30 million people had read or contributed to this thread, moving the conversation beyond social media and making a disturbing fact *abundantly clear: Sexual assault is as American as baseball and apple pie.Women and girls shared that they had been assaulted when they were 5 or 9 or 19. It happened whether they were single, in a relationship or married.Some of the tweets read like short stories with pain, guilt, shame and regret poured out 140 characters at a time. Some contributors used their real names; some created fake accounts to remain *anonymous. Some stated that they had already shared their stories with their families, but many said that they had never reported them before.When people started questioning why women did not report their assaults, a subsequent hashtag, #WhyWomenDontReport, was created and in the space of a few hours, thousands of women responded in similar fashion: shame, fear, embarrassment, confusion, humiliation, self-hatred and a lack of trust that the system will work and hold their abusers *accountable. It became painfully clear that there really is a “locker room”, and it is within this space that men and boys are led to believe that they can sexually assault a woman or girl without any fear that they will be held accountable.The conversation was not about Donald Trump. It did not start with him. We have been talking about sexual assault, rape and *consent for a long time, along with daily forms of micro-sexual aggressions, from inappropriate touching to sexual *innuendoes and jokes.We must now face the hard truth that the US culture has not changed and that these rapists are around us. It is within this environment that this tweet, once introduced, empowered women and girls to tell their stories.And if we do not change now, then we are complicit and we are helping to maintain an environment that encourages and rewards male violence, hyper-sexuality, and the *degradation and silencing of women and girls.
