Someone to watch over you
On Chen Jiaying’s first day working at the supermarket giant Carrefour in 2010, an HR manager introduced him to another employee.The HR told him that the person would be his mentor during his three-months probation period.Although Chen, 26, has long passed his probation period, he still enjoys taking afternoon tea with his mentor and discussing various company issues. Sometime they touch upon Chen’s relationships and personal life.In most foreign corporations, it’s common for a newbie to get a mentor to guide his or her work. It provides support for a new employee. Mentoring is a mechanism in career building, which combines consulting and networking. A mentor’s job is to give workplace advice to young employees.“A mentor is someone who can guide you, help you, take you under his or her wing, and nurture your career,” said Shi Xiaobai, human resource director in L’ORéAL (China) Co, Ltd.“Being different from the average network contact, the relationship with the mentor is a long-term deep-seated investment in your future.”According to Shi, a typical network contact might be associated with quick introductions, exchanges of business cards and phone calls. But the relationship with a mentor will more likely involve lunches and time spent in the mentor’s office.“My mentor is an expansion manager and I knew clearly that I would like to be in that position as well,” he said. “And he has the clout and connections to guide me to a similar role.”He has lunch with his mentor as often as possible. He listens to his stories about climbing the career ladder.“He sometimes takes me out to meet clients, and I can learn the best solutions to the problems which I will also face in my work,” said Chen.But he knows that his mentor is busy, so he makes sure not to overburden him by demanding too much time and attention or becoming overly dependent. For instance, he never asks his mentor to go out for dinner after work.Ideally, a mentor will motivate the employee to do his or her best work. But not all people find their mentor “useful”.Liu Jiacheng, 24, got a mentor when he entered P&G China. “I find that I seldom get advice from her, as she’s at a senior level and doesn’t share the same problems as me in work.”What’s more, Liu might be put into an awkward situation. “My mentor is higher up in the organization, but she’s not my direct boss,” he explained.“Sometimes her ideas contradict those of my manager, or I wrongly took an issue to my mentor that should more appropriately be discussed with my boss.”A good mentor doesn’t always give praise. You want a mentor to help you learn and grow, not simply to make you feel good. “I admit mistakes and share failures with my mentor, and he provides an honest assessment of my strengths and challenges.”
