Top travel stops
One of the most exciting things for those who’ve been bitten by the travel bug is exploring new destinations and encountering refreshing scenery. Travel website tripadvisor.com listed this year’s Travelers’ Choice award-winning destinations last month. Based on millions of reviews by travelers, the list reflects the hottest travel trends.We’ve interviewed four travelers who have been to the top four cities to let them share their experiences.1. Marrakech, MoroccoShen Ze, 24, medical student at Virginia Tech, USI’m a desert enthusiast, so when my friend commented on how beautiful Morocco’s stretch of the Sahara Desert is, I was motivated last year to go to Marrakech for a visit. I found three other companions on the travel website qyer.com and flew there from Madrid, Spain last June.We were lucky and didn’t encounter any sandstorms. I booked a four-person tour on morocco-cameltrekking.com three months in advance. Each tourist spent 190 euros (about 1,250 yuan). Due to the sweltering heat, visitors couldn’t enter the desert during the daytime. Therefore, we set off at 6:30 pm with the local guide and arrived at the campsite after one hour. The scenery completely put the other deserts I’d seen to shame: the camels sauntered around in gusts of wind that swept the golden sand up into the air, blurring the border between the sky and everything beneath it.Best season: November to FebruaryTips:•Haggling is a tradition.•Ask the price before taking photos of or with an animal.2. Siem Reap, CambodiaZou Liya, 26, new media specialist in ShanghaiI went to Siem Reap for three days at the end of last year. I set off from Shanghai and spent 4,000 yuan in total in Siem Reap and other Combodian cities.I’d had my eye on Siem Reap long after my friends spoke highly of the Angkor Wat temple complex. And it was true! It was bigger than I expected. If you want to appreciate it fully, it might even take one week, but I was only there for two days. But in that short time I was fascinated by its ancient mystery. The temple walls were decorated with delicate frescos reflecting the joint legacies of Hinduism and Buddhism. The most common way to get around Siem Reap is to hop on rickshaws (the locals call them Tuk Tuk), but I ventured out on a bike like many Europeans. It took 45 minutes and I felt so tired.Best season: November to MarchTips:•Go to Angkor Wat during sunrise or sunset to avoid crowds.•Dress modestly when visiting Buddhist temples. Don’t wear pants and clothes without sleeves.3. Istanbul, TurkeyLi Liang, 33, staff member at a custom clothing company in HangzhouPhotos taken by Turkish female photographer Rengim Mutevellioglu and the book Istanbul, written by Turkish Nobel Literature Prize-winning author Ferit Orhan Pamuk, inspired me to explore Istanbul.I expected it to be ancient like other cities in Europe. But it was more than that. Arriving at night, I passed the Sultan Ahmed Mosque. As expected, its walls were decorated with blue tiles. When I saw the giant blue glass windows and blue painted ceiling in the following trip, I was amazed by its colorful hues. Pious people sat in it, creating an intensely religious atmosphere. The whole city looked full of history. When I stood on the Galata Bridge, I saw the scattered houses and the blue straits weaving through the city. Everything was vibrant but still evoked a slight feeling of melancholy, just like Pamuk described in his book.Best season: spring and autumnTips:•Bring your own socks. You’ll need to take your shoes off to enter the Sultan Ahmed Mosque.•Wear comfortable shoes, as it is a hilly city.4. Hanoi, VietnamHuang Shiqi, 26, professional in a Beijing real estate companyThis January, I went to Hong Kong for a training and had a one-week holiday. I searched on the map and found Hanoi, Vietnam wasn’t too far away. It was a two-hour flight out of Hong Kong.I booked a hotel in the center of the city, woke up late every day and walked around freely in the streets. The houses were worn out, the streets were narrow and people wore outdated clothes. In the afternoon, many ordered a cup of coffee and a plate of melon seeds to kill time in the cafe. I originally thought Vietnam was a poor country, but I was surprised to see people there still enjoyed themselves and were quite optimistic. That amazed me.Best season: spring, autumn and winterTips:•Be careful of the exchange rate between the Vietnamese dong (VND) and RMB.•Use both hands to pass things to someone else.
