My wife, your husband
Zhang Nana (not her real name), a 32-year-old working for a Beijing-based magazine, and her 58-year-old parents are caught in a crisis that threatens to tear apart the family.But it was only in October 2006 that her parents attended the banquet that gathered together more than 100 relatives and friends, to celebrate their daughter’s marriage to a good-looking, 31-year-old university lecturer surnamed Wang.Three years later, the couple divorced. The reason that Zhang gave her parents has plunged a home filled with warmth and laughter into distress and agony. She finally told them: She is a homosexual."Why are you failing me?" questions her mother."Can you not try and change?" they ask, worn out by their crying, disbelief and disappointment.Although China removed homosexuality from its list of mental illnesses in 2001, people like Zhang’s parents continue to see it as an abnormity that can be corrected."How can I?" counters Zhang."I haven’t told them that I’ve been living with my female partner since 2004."They believe I’ve ’degenerated’ into same-sex love because of troubles in the marriage. But Wang, too, is gay. ""Our marriage was a cover from the very beginning," she adds.Zhang shares a loving relationship with Shenlan (not her real name), 29, who was a bridesmaid at her wedding.They discovered one another while co-renting an apartment in the capital’s Wangjing area. Knowing that their parents would never be able to understand or accept their love, they kept their relationship secret.As her love for Shenlan deepened, she began to think of the future. "I realized that sooner or later, I would have to react to my parents’ expectations."It was while trawling the online lesbian-community forums and reading of the personal experiences of other homosexuals, that Zhang and her partner decided to look for a gay couple "so we could help one another".In early 2006, Zhang and Shenlan met Wang and Lian (They would not give their full names). Based on favorable first impressions, and the intense pressure for marriage by both Zhang’s and Wang’s parents, the two registered their marriage in May.At first, everything went smoothly. But gradually she felt Wang was not playing his part as a supportive "husband", or a dutiful son-in-law. Their collaboration ended and Zhang saw a chance to come clean with her parents."I was sick of lying to them," she says.Guo Xiaofei, law school lecturer at China University of Political Science and Law, and author of Homosexuality in the Prospective of Chinese Law, says that in a country where same-sex marriage/partnership is not legal, a sham marriage is the gay community’s creative response to the pressure to conform.In a 2006 interview with Guangzhou Daily, leading sociologist and sexologist Li Yinhe of the China Academy of Social Sciences said， 90 percent of the country’s homosexuals, with an estimated population of 39-52 million, are trapped in marriages with straight partners.University lecturer Guo says Zhang’s decision also reflects the growing economic and social status of Chinese women, and the increasing confidence with which homosexuals are approaching their sexual identity.Zhang is still waiting to reconcile with her family."I would love to invite my mom and dad to our place to see how I’m living and how I get along with Shenlan," she says. "But so far, I have made little progress."
