Beat the pollution blues
March is supposed to be a beautiful month. Birds start singing again, trees start showing the first signs of spring, and balmy breezes blow around street corners. But sadly, that’s not all. Flus are common in early spring, pollens are getting ready to cause sneezing and stuffy noses, and PM2.5 is still bothering us.This potent combination spells trouble, so take extra precautions with the right mask.Activated charcoal maskIf you have to stay in a recently painted room, you should consider wearing an activated charcoal mask to protect yourself against formaldehyde and benzol. Activated charcoal is efficient at absorbing such carbon-based impurities.Many other chemicals, however, are not attracted to carbon at all. This means that an activated charcoal filter will remove certain impurities from the air while missing others.Note also that an activated charcoal mask is no longer effective when all of its “bonding sites” are filled. At that point you must replace it with a new one.Particulate respiratorThe intended use of a respirator is to help reduce the wearer’s exposure to airborne particles that could be inhaled and enter the human respiratory system.In the US, to qualify as a certified respirator, the mask must be approved by National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) as to its respiratory protection efficiency. One of the most common respirator masks is NIOSH N95, which filters at least 95 percent of particles with diameters ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 μm. That means the respirator is effective against dust, pollen and PM2.5.Surgical maskSurgical masks are often used to protect the wearer against body fluids from other people. As flu viruses are spread mainly through droplets when infected people cough, sneeze or talk, experts recommend surgical masks to prevent the spread of the illness. “If you’re caring for a family member with influenza, I think a surgical mask is perfectly adequate,” Carol McLay, an infection control consultant, told The New York Times.But surgical masks are not designed to prevent inhalation of airborne particles, so they aren’t as effective in protecting PM2.5 or pollen.
