Top 10 safest airlines in the world
Travel + Leisure, a monthly publication from American Express Publishing Corp, decided to find out which airlines are the safest of all by reviewing the latest global safety rankings from the Air Transport Rating Agency (ATRA) and the Jet Airliner Crash Data Evaluation Centre (JACDEC), and combines the two annual rankings with other critical factors to determine the top airline rankings.No. 1 LufthansaNamed after the medieval Hansa League, Germany’s longtime national airline was founded in the 1920s and relaunched after World War II. Lufthansa has since established an enviable safety record, while growing to a fleet of nearly 300 aircraft that serve more than 200 destinations.No. 2 British AirwaysBA’s safety record is especially commendable given how many different types of aircraft the company has flown since its 1974 launch, from Vickers Vanguard turboprops to Concorde supersonic jets. The airline even offers a modified version of its flight safety awareness training to the public.No. 3 Qantas (tie)Raymond Babbitt (Dustin Hoffman) famously quipped in Rain Man that Qantas has never had an accident. That’s almost true: the Australian carrier hasn’t had a fatal crash since 1951.No. 3 Southwest (tie)Long a passenger favorite, Southwest has proven that a low-cost, no-frills airline can also excel when it comes to safety.No. 5 Cathay PacificOften ranked among the best for passenger experience and in-flight service, Cathay Pacific can also boast about its outstanding safety record.No. 6 KLMFounded in 1919, Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij is the world’s oldest continuously operating commercial carrier. Over the next few years, the Dutch carrier (now merged with Air France) will replace its entire fleet with brand-new aircraft, including the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.No. 7 EmiratesThe Dubai-based carrier has logged only two accidents in its 28 years of operation. Always at the cutting edge of in-flight luxury, Emirates is renowned for its onboard showers, mini spa, lounge bar, and private "suites" with fully reclining sleeper seats.No. 8 United/ContinentalOne of the largest mergers in aviation history, Chicago-based United and Houston-based Continental came together in 2010 to form one of the world’s largest airlines - more than 1,260 aircraft serving 370 destinations. While the two airlines have had to overcome some cultural differences, both share a reputation for safety.No. 9 DeltaWith 164 million passengers in 2012, Delta is the world’s single largest airline. The Atlanta-based airline’s safety record is even more impressive when you consider that Delta has more than 1.8 million flights each year.No. 10 US AirwaysOne of the oldest American carriers, US Air traces its roots to 1939 and a small regional airline serving the Ohio River Valley. It has become a giant of aviation, with more than 600 planes serving 200 cities. In the past few years, new technology, employee incentives, and a system-wide customer service campaign have also improved the airline’s reputation in areas like baggage handling.
