Bag that cheap deal
The next long vacation might be still months away, but it’s never too early to tailor a good travel plan.Planning ahead with discount air tickets and hotel booking sites may bring you the prize of an overseas adventure.Here, 21st Century offers some tips on how to plan a cheap, creative travel route.Book a budget flightThe key to getting any good-priced plane ticket is to reserve the flight early. Discount airlines tend to increase their fare as the plane fills up and early reservations are usually rewarded with the lowest fares.Most major domestic airlines offer discount tickets for off-peak travel. China Southen Airlines now provides favorable group purchase ticket deals to attract tourists to cities like Hong Kong and Guilin. Air China and Beijing Capital Airlines offer tickets with as much as 75 to 80 per cent discounts.Another way is to search for a cheap ticket on the websites of low-cost airlines, which offer you very low fares though less comfort.Now, Air Asia, Tiger Airways and Jetstar Asia are all offering very low -fare tickets to Chinese travelers. In this way, they can fly to many overseas destinations on a small budget.The budget airline has a long history in the West. It’s also called a no-frills carrier for doing away with traditional free services, such as food and drinks. They charge you extra for catering on board, or securing a seat. Many budget airlines put a fee on checked in luggage, so it’s wiser to take hand luggage.Popular airline routesAir Asia: The Malaysian-based airline flies from seven cities in China including Tianjin, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Chongqing, Hangzhou, Guilin and Shenzhen in the Chinese mainland, and provides trips to cities such as Paris and London. It can transfer you to most South East Asian countries. Many tickets are priced under 1,500 yuan.Jetstar Asia Airways: It’s a low-cost airline headquartered in Singapore. Travelers can leave from airports in numerous cities including Beijing.Southwest Airlines: If you go traveling in the US you can take this low-cost airline based in Texas.Find a cheap 5-star service hotelLike airline tickets, the price for a budget hotel depends on when you book it - the earlier, the cheaper. It’s a great idea to look for YHA (Youth Hostels Association) backpackers, or Bed & Breakfast deals online.
