Chinese rescuer reaches out to Haiti 
Chen Yan has been restless since he learned a 7.3-magnitude earthquake wreaked havoc in Haiti. "How to get to the country is all he can talk about," said his wife Peng Lu.Chen, deputy chief of the Sichuan provincial emergency volunteer team, received a text message from the Beijing-based China Earthquake Network Center in the wee hours of Jan 13 Beijing time. "I didn’t take it seriously and thought the quake might have taken place in the sea," said the thin but tall and robust man. Several hours later, a friend in the National Earthquake Disaster Relief Team called, telling him about the terrible aftermath of the quake in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince. "I have been determined to go there ever since then," said the 38-year-old. He collected his tent, safety cap, mask and emergency kits and booked an air ticket for Beijing on the afternoon of Jan 13 with the intention of going with the National Earthquake Disaster Relief Team. After he hurried to the airport in Chengdu, he was told by the National Earthquake Disaster Relief Team that he could not go with them because he was not on its payroll. "That night I called a famous Beijing-based foundation asking whether it could help me go to Haiti. As China has not established diplomatic relations with Haiti, members of the foundation cannot go to Haiti. Neither could it help me go there," Chen said.On the afternoon of Jan 14, members of the National Earthquake Disaster Relief Team arrived in Haiti. One member called Chen and told him the country was in a deplorable condition. "He told me most of the houses in Port-au-Prince had collapsed. Although all the peacekeepers were involved in the rescue operation, it proved ineffective because of the lack of equipment. Only one hospital still operated and people were scared," Chen said.A representative office of a Haitian company in Beijing promised to help Chen get a visa for the United States. "Once I arrive in New York, I will try to secure a visa for Haiti from the Haitian Embassy in the United States. As it will take some 20 hours to arrive in Haiti via the United States, I will miss the best time to save people from the rubble. But as a man from Sichuan, I must go there," Chen said excitedly.His desire to go to Haiti stems from his status as a Sichuan man, Chen said. "A dozen overseas rescue and medical teams helped Sichuan in the earthquake in 2008, and countless people in the world donated money and materials to us. We Sichuan people must repay their kindness by participating in the earthquake relief in Haiti," he said. Admitting he has missed the best time for rescue - 72 hours after the quake - Chen wishes to help Haitian people get more relief materials from China after arriving in Haiti. 
