Farewell, Kobe
It was April 2013, and Kobe Bryant was at the peak of his career, dominating the court by spinning, shooting and scoring. Then suddenly, as he tried to maneuver his way around a defensive guard, he started to stumble and fall. Before the game ended, Bryant fell again, and he could barely walk.“I remember feeling the silence. I remember feeling the fear... This can be the end,” Bryant recalled in his documentary, Kobe Bryant’s Muse. His fears were well founded. He had ruptured his left Achilles tendon. It was the kind of injury that ended US All-Star player Isiah Thomas’ career.Bidding farewell to a sport you love is hard. But Bryant took an even harder, more painful route: His goodbye lasted for nearly three years.Seven months after his injury, he was back on the court again. But his performance never quite recovered. Bryant led the Lakers as the team set a record with three consecutive season losses. Over the course of this season, which happens to be Bryant’s last, he logged the worst rate for shooting accuracy in the league.But for many, Bryant remains a legend. He started out as a basketball prodigy who skipped college and took his talents directly to NBA. His deadly agility and aggressive tactics earned him the nickname Black Mamba. Fans remember him as the player who helped the Lakers clinch five NBA championships in his two-decade long career.But the sad fact is that the Lakers may have been better off if Kobe played less this season. Last month, they won a game against one of the best teams in NBA history, the Golden State Warriors. Bryant spent the fourth quarter of that game resting on the bench. But the team has otherwise made an effort to keep him on the court, in part to thank him for decades of service. As teammate D’Angelo Russell told CBS, their job this season is to “get Kobe the ball”.The back-to-back losses forced Lakers coach Byron Scott to defend Bryant. He told the press on numerous occasions that Bryant has earned the right to take as many shots as he wants, despite his fluctuating performances.The Lakers’ fans have also been very supportive. Currently, the Lakers rank as the second-worst team in the league, but it sells more tickets than leading teams like the Golden State Warriors. The reason for this is simple: Fans want to see Bryant playing on the court.Bryant’s final game is scheduled for April 13 at the Staples Center in his home city of Los Angeles. For Bryant, the occasion is bittersweet. In an interview with ESPN, Bryant explained how much these last few games meant to him. “There’s nothing I love more than being able to play this entire season,” Bryant said, “to go through these tough times, to play in these buildings one last time.”
