Virus spreads worldwide
We all rely on computers in our everyday lives. From buying travel tickets in the morning to researching homework at night, our lives would be a lot more difficult without them. So what happens when we can’t use them?Since May 12, a computer virus named WannaCry has infected more than 300,000 computers in over 150 countries, according to Reuters.Once the virus gets into the computer, it locks all the documents and asks for money from the user to unlock them. At first, it asks for $300 (2,068 yuan), but if the user doesn’t send the money in 72 hours, the price doubles. Documents are locked forever if the user doesn’t pay in seven days.WannaCry is spread by taking advantage of a weakness in Microsoft’s Windows operating system. It can quickly infect an entire network, locking hundreds of computers within minutes.In the UK, the virus left the country’s National Health Service in chaos. Some hospitals had to cancel outpatient appointments and tell people to avoid emergency departments unless necessary. Doctors even warned that the cyber (网络的) attack could cost lives, reported The Telegraph.In China, the virus has hit tens of thousands of computers, according to Qihoo 360. The software company warned that “global internet security has reached a moment of emergency.”One of the most hard-hit groups in China were on-campus university users. Many students’ graduation theses and experiment data were locked, leaving them feeling panicked.Also severely hit were gas stations. China National Petroleum Corp, one of China’s largest gas suppliers, said on its website that the payment system in many of its gas stations wasn’t functioning due to the virus.If you weren’t affected, there’s no need to panic. Unaffected users can install (安装) a software update released by Microsoft to fix the weakness. The US software giant released the update in March, meaning most computers should already be protected. Meanwhile, cybersecurity experts are actively trying to find a solution to control the virus’ spread.WannaCry is the most recent example of a widespread cybersecurity incident. And in the eyes of Matthew Hickey, founder of UK-based security firm Hacker House, the attack is not surprising. He told CNN that it shows that many organizations do not apply updates fast enough.According to a study by researchers from the University of Edinburgh, UK, and Indiana University, US, in 2016, nearly half of the respondents to a survey said they had been frustrated with the way software updates work.But as China Daily wrote, “There really is no full defense against these kinds of viruses, as this cat and mouse game will continue forever. The best option for most users is to take care online and always install software updates.”
