Looking for marriage, and maybe love
How much do you earn? Making a match isn’t always romantic."This is not romantic at all." Yu Junjie, 24, was amused to see so much personal information posted at Beijing International Sculpture Park’s matchmaking event. Many of the fliers listed specific salary and housing requirements. Despite the cold weather and the unromantic posts, parks in Beijing and across the country became hot matchmaking spots as aspiring married people flocked in to find their life mates. What began as small groups of parents meeting to exchange information about their unmarried children has been drawing more young people in recent years. Roughly 50,000 people registered their personal information on large boards erected on the square at Beijing International Sculpture Park Feb 2-9.Most young people are busy at work or studying for advanced degrees, so the Spring Festival holidays provide a chance for them to meet many people in a short time. Such an event might be a time-saver, but Yu Junjie found it a romance-killer. She pointed out one notice that required the potential match, if a Beijing local, to have a monthly salary of more than 5,000 yuan. For guys without a Beijing hukou (household registration), the salary minimum was 10,000 yuan. The study by the China Association of Marriage and Families Research and Baihe Marriage Research Institute said that over 70 percent of women polled think that to be eligible for marriage, a man should have a house, a steady income and some savings. And 41.7 percent of women surveyed wanted their partners to be civil servants, because they consider those jobs "gravy" and the most stable in China. Wang Zhiguo, relationship counselor at the Baihe institute, said the report shows that many women view marriage as a form of social security. The Law Society’s Li Mingshun said there’s nothing wrong with listing one’s basic needs for marriage, especial now, as society becomes more open. Suo Jinpeng, 28, said he had gotten seven phone numbers this day from young women or their parents. During the three hours he spent wandering in the park, Suo said, the most frequent question he was asked was his salary. There’s no apparent discomfort among the parents who frequent attend matchmaking events, according to one of the organizers, Hao Pengfei. Liu Hongjun, 58, was not happy about several potential daughter-in-law candidates. This was the third day he and his wife had spent in parks, looking. They have been trying since summer to find a woman who would marry his 32-year-old son. "Some girls’ parents will have second thoughts as soon as they know my son has been divorced." Li Mingshun said there are reasons for parents’ active involvement in their children’s quest for marriage partners. "By talking to the other parents, parents can know a lot about the other family’s back-ground, even if they don’t meet the kid." For many of these parents, marriage is not simply a matter of a couple, but their family as well. 
