Top 10 darndest quotes in 2009
1."We are of high-level positions. So don’t bother to call the police."Yu Fuqin, wife of an official from Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, slapped a 19-year-old tour guide twice in the face when she was reminded not to touch an ancient mural in Mogao Grottoes in Dunhuang, Gansu province, on Oct 6.When the couple was questioned about the issue by security staff, the husband said: "We are of high-level positions. So don’t bother to call the police."2. "Why doesn’t the public reveal their assets first?""Why doesn’t the public reveal their assets first? And why don’t the entrepreneurs make their profits public to their employees?" a provincial member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) asked the journalist when asked about the official asset declaration system.3. "I will have your website shut down if you (journalist) dare to report it."A female teacher, tired of being harassed during a banquet by a binge-drinking local official of education in Jinan, slapped him in the face."How dare you," the official threatened, "I’m an official in charge of education, and you will regret it."When a journalist tried to interview him about the incident, the official pointed a finger at the journalist and said, "I will have your website shut down if you (journalist) dare to report it".4."Go straight to the fifth floor. Don’t choose the first or second floor."A 66-year-old villager in Chengde of Hebei province asked local official Shi Guozhong for help on demolition compensation in December.The villager cried and claimed she would commit suicide by jumping from a top building after she was rejected by Shi Guozhong. "It’s none of my business. Go straight to the fifth floor (if you want to commit suicide). Don’t choose the first or second floor," the official answered.5. "You are doomed to be punished if you fight against the government. Any action against the government is illegal."Pan Rong, from Minhang district of Shanghai, was called "a brave woman" by netizens for throwing self-made Molotov cocktails at authorities to protest the forcible demolition of her house.However, the self-made explosives failed to prevent the demolition. Pan and her husband were seized and their house was pulled down.An official in the district in charge of demolition pronounced, "You are doomed to be punished if you fight against the government. Any action against the government is illegal".6. "You are a mouthpiece for the party (CPC) or the people?"After luxury houses were built in a region intended for affordable housing in Zhengzhou, Henan province, journalists interviewed local official Lu Jun, on June 17th."You are a mouthpiece for the party (CPC) or the people?" he asked.7. "Build, baby, build! We will make up for your loss."Wang Aimin, mayor of Langfang of Hebei province, issued a slogan to attract investment to the real estate industry.He said, "Real estate is a good industry to invest in and we will offset all the losses of the developers who come to invest."8. "I say 99 percent of repeat petitioners are mentally ill."Sun Dongdong, an expert with the Ministry of Health and a professor of Peking University, told the press that "99 percent of repeat petitioners are mentally ill".9. "Which media organization do you work for?"Zhou Jihong, head of the Chinese national diving team, refuted the rumor that she fixed the diving competitions at the 11th Chinese National Games.When asked about the scandal, Zhou retorted, "Which media organization do you work for?"10. "Are you a member of the Communist Party (CPC)?"A dog management office in Zhengzhou has received a storm of criticism for spending 7.3 million yuan ($1 million) in two years without providing more services to the public.An investigation was conducted by a local newspaper on November.Wang Guanqi, a local official with the bureau of budget administration, refused an interview and asked the journalist, "Are you a member of CPC? And you have to get approval from our bureau CPC committee if you want an interview."
