How to avoid online dating mistakes
If you are new to online dating, it can be hard to understand, with numerous pages and questions to fill out, profile pictures to add in, text-style lingo, blank responses and site navigations. However, persevere and there could be something - or someone - worth while waiting for you at the end. To help you on your journey we’ve compiled a list of what to avoid and why…Remember less is more When writing or compiling your profile try to think about what keeps you keen and interested when reading other profiles. Keeping things short and sweet not only shows people that you are concise and don’t waffle, but that you also know what you want. Keep it real When you upload images of yourself some people tend to leave in their best pics. However, if the photo is 15 years old and show you with a long-lost flat stomach and full head of hair, then keep it honest - ask a friend to take some updated versions instead. The same works with claiming you are a millionaire, own a yacht and drive a Ferrari - it’s only impressive if it’s true. There is no point in lying; people always find out. Never, ever, give away money No matter how well you get to know someone or feel your relationship has blossomed online, or in the flesh, never ever lend out money - whatever the circumstance. Always be polite In reality you wouldn’t stop chatting to someone in the street mid-flow if they were boring you in a conversation; however, online you can. If an email conversation starts out well but then you realise this person isn’t ’the one’ then politely back away. Failing that, if they don’t take the hint, then their emails conveniently getting ’lost in cyberspace’ or ignoring all contact should also work. Don’t expect too much too soon Online dating takes time. Therefore, buying a one month subscription to an online dating site seems a bit optimistic. You need to set goals and stick to them and if you follow the rules above and allow a relationship to blossom over time, then maybe, just maybe, Prince Charming will be waiting to carry you off into the sunset…
