Bond girl, reimagined
For over half a century, the 007 films have depicted a world dominated by man’s power. The series follows James Bond, an unshakable hero who works for the British spy agency MI6.But times have changed, and so have the women who accompany Bond on his international missions.Spectre, the newest chapter of the 007 saga, will be released on Nov 13, and the latest Bond girl Madeleine Swann, played by French actress Léa Seydoux, is endowed with unprecedented significance.Swann is, of course, one of Bond’s love interests, but her role goes far deeper than that. She is both a psychologist and the daughter of an assassin. Thanks to her unconventional upbringing, she can dismantle a handgun as easily as she can order a vodka martini. Swann is Bond’s equal in every way, Seydoux told the press.Her character “was a stereotypical Bond girl, very sexy, but while Madeleine sleeps with Bond, this time it’s different. She doesn’t need him or wait for him to save her,” Seydoux told The Mail on Sunday.At first, the actress was afraid to take the role. It was unlike anything she had ever played. “Because for me, a Bond girl in my mind is seductive... She’s a woman, she’s sure of herself,” Seydoux said in an interview with Metro newspaper. “My characters are always kind of tortured and not very feminine. They don’t have a very obvious femininity.”Previously, the actress starred as an assassin in the 2011 film Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol. But she rose to worldwide fame in 2013 when she was awarded the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival, for her role in critically acclaimed French lesbian drama Blue Is the Warmest Colour.Seydoux exercises those award-winning acting chops again in Spectre. Her Bond girl is more than just a decoration. She’s the key to unlocking the film’s mysteries.“It’s not until the introduction of Léa Seydoux’s Madeleine Swann that the plot really starts to tick... Seydoux is the film’s secret weapon, bringing emotional heft to the pantomime elements, a winning mixture of strength and sultriness,” reviewer Mark Kermode wrote in The Guardian.Aside from Seydoux, Spectre stars another unique Bond girl, 51-year-old Italian actress Monica Bellucci. She’s the oldest actress ever to play a Bond girl. It’s further evidence that this long-running spy franchise has perhaps turned a corner – that its women are no longer just eye candy, but symbols of modern female power.
