Performing pregnancy
News spread quickly through the literary world: Nigerian novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, winner of a 2008 MacArthur “genius” grant, had given birth to a baby girl. But the growing public attention didn’t focus on the fact of the birth – that was material better left to the *tabloids – but on the manner in which the announcement was given. Adichie, in fact, hadn’t actually announced it at all.Instead, she casually let it slip during an interview with the Financial Times’ David Pilling, over a lunch of *jollof rice, curry and steamed greens. As Pilling recounts in an article published late last month, Adichie ordered a non-alcoholic cocktail, offering a simple explanation: “I’m *breastfeeding.”Pilling writes he took a moment to process the *revelation, before inquiring further. This spurred Adichie to explain why she chose to keep quiet. “I just feel like we live in an age when women are supposed to perform pregnancy. We don’t expect fathers to perform fatherhood,” she said. “I wanted it to be as personal as possible.”The conversation doesn’t go much further, but her words raise the question of what it means to be pregnant today, in our hyper-connected society. Pregnant women have always born the weight of societal expectations – only now, one of those burdens has to do with the *spectacle of pregnancy.It’s hard to hide a growing belly, especially after four to five months or so, but now more than ever, a *fetus’s development has become a public event. Social media serves as a *catalogue for users’ life changes, and if mood swings and wardrobe updates qualify, pregnancy certainly fits the bill. To withhold such information would be treated as a betrayal by the social media audience, which has come to expect a degree of intimacy from the medium.The internet has shifted the very way we speak about pregnancy, just over the last decade and a half. Phrases like “baby *bump” and “bump watch” may be *ubiquitous online and in tabloids nowadays, but they were virtually nonexistent before the start of the new millennium.Slate reporter Dvora Meyers traces “baby bump” back to 2002, when the tabloid Us Weekly started to use it to describe the midsections of pregnant celebrities. Jezebel’s Sadie Stein places the origins of “bump watch” not long after, in 2004, as the *paparazzi scanned the stomachs of celebrities for evidence of a developing child.With so much emphasis on women’s *midriffs, it’s little wonder that the pregnancy photos online have become a series of headless portraits, the camera laser-focused on the expanding belly in question. This style of photo can seem dehumanizing: The woman stands in profile to give her growing belly maximum effect, but her face is usually cut off at the top of the frame. The fetus is given symbolic importance, not the mother-to-be.Performing pregnancy continues well after the baby is born. An equally modern phenomenon is the concept of the “post-baby body”: New mothers must race to *shed their pregnancy fat after conceiving, to return to their so-called “real” weight. It’s just one more pressure to add to a slate now filled with the day-to-day care of a newborn, and it’s little wonder Adichie wanted no part of it.
