Preview of spring series
If some of your favorite US television series are currently on a break and you’re upset about having to wait several weeks or even months for the next episode, don’t be. A handful of new and returning midseason TV shows are competing for your attention.Mad Men (AMC)Returning season: 7 (first half)Premiere date: April 13What it’s about: For six seasons Don Draper (Jon Hamm) has been the sophisticated and sometimes irredeemable creative director of the Sterling Cooper ad agency. Now, with the series going into the first half of its final seventh season, the focus remains on Draper to see if he can save himself before the last cigarette burns out.Why you should watch it: Winning the Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series four years in a row makes Mad Men one of the best TV shows ever. With it heading into its final season, it will be interesting to see how the series will offer a satisfying ending while continuing to focus on its award-winning quality.Game of Thrones (HBO)Returning season: 4Premiere date: April 6What it’s about: From the sinister Lannister clan to the dwindling numbers of the Stark family to fiery Daenarys Targaryen, everyone wants to rule the seven kingdoms of Westeros. Heading into the series’ fourth season, the adaptation of US author George R.R. Martin’s epic has seen a lot of blood being spilled. This time, a few new faces threaten to cripple the current order of power.Why you should watch it: From the new season’s trailers, it appears vengeance is highly likely. Coming off a strong Emmy-nominated third season, fans should be excited for an even larger — and gorier — season this time around.Veep (HBO)Returning season: 3Premiere date: April 6What it’s about: Heading into Season 3, Julia Louis-Dreyfus returns in her Emmy Award-winning role as vice president Selina Meyer. This time, she attempts to make moves that will finally get her into a role greater than second place.Why you should watch it: Louis-Dreyfus’ performance alone is enjoyable enough, but Veep is so well rounded and hilarious it will make you want to follow US politics.24: Live Another Day (Fox)Returning season: a special event series of 24Premiere date: May 5What it’s about: In this 12-episode mini-series, Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) returns to save the world again. Set four years after the events of 24’s season 8, Bauer has to stop a terrorist attack in London along with fan favorite Chloe O’Brian (Mary Lynn Rajskub) before time runs out.Why you should watch it: If you’re already a fan of the classic 24, there’s no question you’ll love this new special. If you’re new to the series, there aren’t many more exciting characters in TV than Jack Bauer.
