Australia losing its shine in Chinese eyes
“There were some unpleasant incidents happening between China and Australia recently and I’m worried about my life there,” said Yu.Yu was referring to the string of incidents, both political and economic, that have pushed Sino-Australian relations to a 10-year low. Australia has long been a popular tourist and student destination but now many people face the same question as Yu. In a 21st Century online survey, 50 percent of young people say that tensions between China and Australia might affect their study abroad plans and 25 percent say they’re hesitant about their travel plans. According to the Sydney-based newspaper The Australian, tourist visa applications from China fell by up to 80 percent in the past three months. “Australia’s recent actions have given Chinese an unfriendly impression,” said Zhao Guojun, a Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences (SASS) international affairs specialist. “Chinese don’t want to go to a country they feel uncomfortable with.”But other experts are optimistic about the two countries’ future relations and suggest that young people see through the current conflicts.“Australia is politically close to Western countries, but its economic development depends on trade with Asia, especially China,” said Han Feng, a deputy director at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences’ Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies. “Since the Kevin Rudd administration came to power in late 2007, it has been trying to balance its economic and political systems. It’s normal to have *friction with countries like China during this period.” But these frictions won’t significantly affect young people’s lives, Han said. “In the long run, cooperation instead of conflicts will dominate, creating more opportunities for young Chinese.” Huang Shan, 22, is a trade manager at Great Sail Metals Co. in Sydney, which exports waste metal to China. “I haven’t felt any impact on my work,” he said. “I seldom talk about the recent incidents with Australian colleagues. When I do business with Australian clients, they always emphasize that they don’t want any political issues to affect trade.”Huang went to Sydney after graduating from Sun Yat-sen University last month. He finds Australia a bridge between China and the Western world. “I feel warm when I see many Chinese and Chinese restaurants around,” said Huang. “You can buy familiar daily items in Chinatown. I even found moon cakes in the local supermarket for the Mid-autumn Festival.”
