Stifling corporate culture
Yang Yongfa had waited tables for seven hours. But he instinctively switched on his big smile when another customer walked in.Nightshift drags on until three in the morning. But Yang still cleans and sets tables in a robot-like manner. The restaurant where Yang works is the much-hyped hot-pot chain Haidilao. Its famed customer service is legendary among Internet users. They go sight-seeing to Haidilao to watch devoted employees at work.A family-like culture and military-style management are behind the employees’ commitment. But some HR experts say that a strong corporate culture doesn’t suit everyone.Asked about his boundless energy, Yang, 23, a grad of Yan’an University, attributes it to the company’s parental care for its employees and opportunities for promotion.Haidilao offers Internet-connected apartments with a housekeeping service, an education fund and attractive severance pay among its perks to motivate employees. More and more companies are stamping their corporate ethos on employees’ minds by caring for them like children. Google pampers its employees by offering them massage armchairs and billiard tables at work. Perks are effective in boosting employees’morale and molding them to become the type of staff the company wants. Yang can repeat the tenets on his pre-job training brochure word for word: “Careful, patient, considerate, enthusiastic”.“The housing price in Beijing is daunting, but our dorms are well-decorated apartments. The boss treats me well, and I should treat my customers well too,” said Yang.However, these caring companies are not necessarily easy-going managers, according to Chen Xi, career consultant from Zhaopin.com. “Instead, for many of these companies, the incentives are used to balance their strict rules and regulations,” said Chen. Guidelines for Haidilao waiters cover trivial matters. A waiter is required to change a customer’s hot towel no less than four times and no more than six times (if the customer has no special requirements).Chen added: “Young people attracted by tempting incentives may not be prepared for this. It’s difficult for them to fit into the workplace.”Besides, Chen doesn’t think it a good idea for youngsters to be molded by management models to become clones.He said: “College grads confused about their career paths may feel secure doing the same as their colleagues.”“But those with strong characters and clear career goals need more space to give their personalities full play.”Shen Ying, not her real name,23, has worked at a Japanese trade company in Shanghai for about a year. In Shen’s company, all employees wear suits like ladies and gentlemen.They say “Excuse me” frequently and are modest and prudent at work. Shen found it difficult to fit this stereotype at the beginning. She is direct and casual in speech and demeanor in her private life.But Shen has learned to hide her personality in the workplace and act like her colleagues. “Japanese companies advocate a low-profile for employees. Being different from your colleagues is an employee’s biggest fear,” said Shen.Google seems like a dream employer to some young people. It offers staff carrots in the form of beautiful offices and flexible working time. But it doesn’t wave a stick to force employees to work according to strict rules. However, Chen Xi warns that the workload is just as heavy in offices which look like homes. “Why would you go home when you can have meals, take exercise and enjoy fun in the office? You may be kept working the entire day without realizing it,” said Chen.
