Graduates see silver lining
When Gao Shuang entered the words “software engineer” in a job search engine over the weekend, nearly 3,000 vacancies came up in Shenzhen, where Gao wants to work.“The number has more than tripled compared to the same time last year,” said Gao, 20, who majors in computer science at Southwest Jiaotong University in Chengdu.China’s GDP is expected to grow by 10 percent this year on the back of a 10.6 percent growth rate for the first three quarters, said China’s central bank. Anxious university grads see a silver lining. But many have begun to be aware of new challenges for job seekers. According to Zheng Bin, director of HR at Baidu, companies in the Internet industry  launched earlier campus recruitment campaigns this year in order to snap up fresh talent. Tongji University’s job fair, with 200 places for recruiters on the schedule, attracted over 400 last Friday. “This is the first time I feel employers are thirsty for talent,” said Lin Zhi, 22, a senior majoring in civil engineering at Tongji University. “Last year, they piled up resumes, which they didn’t read. This year, they interviewed every graduate who provided a resume and some made job offers.” When Lin and Gao entered college in 2006, the demand for grads had decreased by 22 percent compared to 2005. The global economic downturn since 2008 made things even gloomier. However, by November, half of Gao’s 50 classmates had been “hired on good wages”.According to Chen Xi, a senior consultant at Zhaopin.com, companies discard staff who cannot generate profit in economic slumps. As the economy recovers, they re-establish positions and prefer hiring fresh grads with lower salary expectations.The economic crisis pushed many manufacturers to produce commodities with high added-value. “Reform needs grads with fresh ideas,” said Chen.This year, some employers reduced their demand for work experience. “In the economic crisis, we found that many experienced staff lacked loyalty. They were wooed away by offers of higher salaries,” said Xie Lin, an HR manager at Huawei Technologies Co Ltd. “When we rebuild our business, we’d like to find committed employees among fresh graduates.”But the situation is not perfect. Fudan University released an employment report last month saying that the number of graduates will reach over 6.5 million in 2011, nearly six times the number in 2000. The growing number of grads will mean that employment issues will continue for years.Chen Haoming, director of Student Career Development Education Service Center at Fudan University believes the current hiring boom “is just bottoming out” and that the “real bull market” hasn’t come yet. However after years of being “undervalued” in the job market, some students get a bit confused when they receive offers early in December. Some are in two minds about the offers they’ve received, as they are anticipating better opportunities, presumably in the civil service, after the New Year. As Chen points out, some grads only focus on state-owned enterprises and civil service posts, due to their fear of instability. “But it is important to grasp the chance when it comes.”Liu Yongqing, director of HR operations for Lenovo China, said grads have been more confident and relaxed in interviews this year. “But they should be cautious not to be overconfident, or interviewers may worry that they will be difficult and uncooperative in the workplace,” said Liu.Due to fierce competition for jobs, the class of 2011 may have over-prioritized extracurricular activities such as internships at the expense of their studies.“Many applicants failed to pass Baidu’s written test and interviews,” said Zheng Bin, Baidu’s HR director. “We hope students can prioritize their studies over all else, as this will ensure their future competitiveness, regardless of the economic climate.”
