Nestle recalls Toll House cookie dough
Nestle USA on Friday voluntarily recalled its Toll House refrigerated cookie dough products after a number of illnesses were reported by those who ate the dough raw.The company said the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control are investigating reported E. coli illnesses that might be related eating the dough.In a statement, the FDA said there have been 66 reports of illness across 28 states since March. About 25 people have been hospitalized, but no one has died.E. coli is a potentially deadly bacterium that can cause bloody diarrhea, dehydration and, in the most severe cases, kidney failure.The FDA advised consumers to throw away any prepackaged, refrigerated Nestle Toll House cookie dough products in their homes. Retailers, restauranteurs and employees at other food-service operations should also not sell or serve any of the products.Customers also can return any recalled product where they bought it for a full refund.The FDA also said consumers should not try to cook the dough, even though eating cooked dough would be safe, because consumers might get bacteria on their hands and on counters and other cooking surfaces.Nestle spokeswoman Roz O’Hearn said "this has been a very quickly moving situation," adding the company took action less than 24 hours after hearing of the problem. O’Hearn said the company will "cooperate fully" with the FDA’s investigation.The recall includes refrigerated cookie bar dough, cookie dough tub, cookie dough tubes, limited edition cookie dough items, seasonal cookie dough and Ultimates cookie bar dough. It extends to chocolate chip dough and other varieties, including gingerbread, sugar and peanut butter cookie dough. It does not affect any other Toll House products.According to Nestle (China) spokesman, all these products are not sold in China’s market.Nestle holds a 41 percent share of the prepared cookie dough market. There are about 550 employees at the facility, just across the border with North Carolina, about half making Toll House products. Roz O’Hearn said the company doesn’t know how many will be temporarily laid off, but it could be as many as 250.Raw cookie dough is so popular that it has spawned more than 40 groups on Facebook.Stacey Oyler, a 33-year-old San Francisco resident, said "I love the combination of the salt and sweet. You can’t get that from a piece of chocolate."But no raw cookie is necessarily safe. The eggs in Nestle Toll House’s dough are pasteurized. But other ingredients could contain pathogens or bacteria, and the company warns in product labels not to eat the dough raw.Several recent food recalls have been related to bacterial contamination, including a salmonella outbreak last winter traced to a peanut company that sickened more than 600 people and that was blamed for at least nine deaths. A separate outbreak of salmonella last year linked to jalapeno peppers from Mexico led 1,400 people to become ill.
