It's American all the way
NO company– or at least no company’s products — has been as celebrated in American popular culture as General Motors.For generations, GM vehicles have inspired artistic metaphors of freedom, speed, youth, romance, power and sex.So, it’s probably safe to say that General Motors’ bankruptcy filing won’t damage its image polished by movies, TV shows and, especially, popular music.GM’s cars have been instant signifiers of status and attitude, not just on the road but on TV and in the movies.General Motors’ marketing identified each of its brands very well. So, a mere brief appearance of one of its cars in a movie could establish a character’s personality.Heroes, for example, tend to drive muscle cars. Actor Burt Reynolds showed his image as a good old boy by driving a powerful black Pontiac Trans Am in Smokey and the Bandit. The Trans Am’s cousin, the Chevrolet Camaro, got the nod in the 2007 blockbuster Transformers.Rock music has been inseparable from cars since rock ’n’ roll’s beginning. It’s more than a coincidence that the development of rock and "car culture" took off at the same time, says Paul Grushkin, author of Rockin’ Down the Highway: The Cars and People that Made Rock Roll.It started right after World War II. Rising household prosperity, the growth of suburbs and superhighways, and a growing youth population all met the no-limits spirit of the car industry, Grushkin says. "People look back on the cars of that time and can’t believe how audacious it was that someone would drive something like (those cars) down the street. You had unlimited horsepower."So, there came a burst of "teen" car songs from the likes of rock bands "Jan and Dean" and "the Beach Boys". Baby boomer Bruce Springsteen idealized domestic cars, along with youth, in many songs, including "Thunder Road" and "Racing in the Streets".Prince’s "Little Red Corvette" proved so popular that Chevy’s ad agency, Campbell-Ewald, used it in a Corvette ad campaign in 2002. As Bill Ludwig, the agency’s chief creative officer, explained in an interview with AutoWorld: "Frankly, no other brand has inspired popular culture like Chevy. The Corvette and rock ’n’ roll were both born in America, 50 years ago. Coincidence? I think not."GM’s Cadillac division also has inspired countless musical tributes as a symbol of luxury and excessiveness during the same period. You can start with songwriter Buddy Holly singing "Not Fade Away": "My love is bigger than a Cadillac".Black artists share a special history with the Cadillac. For decades, it was the status symbol in African American communities. References to Cadillacs abound in hip-hop, owing to the near-mythic status of the brand among rappers. In fact, rap’s fetishizing of the Cadillac may have helped bring the brand back from the brink in the 1990s. It put a halo of coolness on a car associated with elderly buyers.Unfortunately for GM, that has hardly been enough."The sadness is that the technology has passed GM and Ford by," Grushkin says. "Not enough people want to buy an American product at this point. But for pure absolute nostalgia, it’s American product all the way."
