Trapped in the city
As more and more young Chinese complete their exodus from major metropolises to less polluted small towns, their counterparts in the US are increasingly finding themselves stuck in big cities.For decades, young people in the US flocked to New York, Los Angeles and Chicago to build their careers before taking their earnings into the suburbs to raise families. That pattern appears to be fading now, as more young workers are staying put, a Wall Street Journal story reported recently.According to an analysis of census data by the Brookings Institution and The Wall Street Journal, from 2004 to 2007, before the recession, an average of about 50,000 adults aged 25 to 34 left both the New York and Los Angeles metro areas annually.The recession diminished this flow. Fewer than 23,000 young adults left New York annually between 2010 and 2013. Only about 12,000 left Los Angeles — a drop of nearly 80 percent from before the recession. Chicago’s departures dropped about 60 percent.Big cities offer many of the highest-paying jobs for a generation that was starting or just settling into their careers when the recession hit, an Atlantic article pointed out.But after young people have lived in a big city for a few years, they find it increasingly difficult to get an economic foothold that would allow them to leave.Negative implicationsMedian earnings for full-time US workers aged 18 to 34 have fallen nearly 10 percent since 2000, after adjusting for inflation, to below 1980s levels, according to The Wall Street Journal. This drop means young people, many of whom are also shouldering big student loan debt, have had a hard time saving money and building the good credit needed to secure a mortgage and buy a house elsewhere.The mobility of young workers has been a tremendous asset to the US economy, according to The Atlantic article. In previous decades, cities like New York and Los Angeles attracted 20-somethings with educational or professional opportunities, and then those 20-somethings would migrate to places where they could settle down with a family and buy a spacious house after a few years in the city. This geographic dispersal of highly-skilled workers meant that the gains of states with stronger economies could be spread to those with weaker ones.But on the other hand, this new trend might have negative implications for the economy, according to The Wall Street Journal story. Roughly 1 in 7 young adults lives in the US’ three biggest metropolises, which have massive populations compared with most US cities. If younger people move less, some could get stuck in jobs that aren’t good matches for them, reducing the economy’s productivity. That could make the labor force less flexible and less able to compete internationally in an era of rapid technological change and globalization, according to The Wall Street Journal story.
