Justice courtesy of 'Brother Law'
While most college students spend their spare time in dorms or hanging around the campus, Guan Liming, 22, a junior at the Branch School of Huazhong Normal University in Wuhan, Hubei Province, spends much of his free time in courts and arbitration sessions protecting the rights of his classmates."My major is law. By doing so I can offer some help to my schoolmates," said Guan Liming, who is known on campus as "Brother Law."To date Guan has aided three friends in cases concerned with contract, labor, insurance laws and regulations regarding medical accidents.Initial disappointment Guan’s first case was ultimately a failure but it got him started when in November 2009 he tried to help several classmates who’d rented an apartment that was suddenly sold without their knowledge. The landlord refused to refund their deposit and rent and the students went to Guan for help."I decided to sue the home-owner immediately after I took over the case. I spent more than one month on the details of the case with the students and the new homeowner and tried every method to contact old owner. But I failed. " Guan said.According to Guan, he was quite distressed but he did not give up.Although the case was a bust, Guan became known by other students for his efforts and in March last year a classmate named Yang Yan asked for his aid.Yang spent nearly 10,000 yuan ($1,500) to cure a backache, but her insurance company refused to pay anything towards her care. The insurance company said she had bought the insurance when she was suffering from the backache, not after. But it was a doctor’s error who mistakenly wrote "years" instead of "months."Success at last After the hospital refused several times, Guan decided to sue it. Several days later, the hospital called Guan and admitted it was the doctor’s fault and promised they would revise the time on Yang’s medical record to "several months". Finally, Yang received compensation.The experience gave Guan a lot of confidence and made him famous on campus. Very soon, Guan succeeded in helping another friend named Xiaoyu (pseudonym) who had graduated in June 2010, found a job at a medical company but was fired in October without receiving her salary.Works for free Xiaoyu said she was touched by Guan’s help. "I wanted to give him money after he helped me but he refused it. He is a generous person.""These students are not rich and I had a part-time job and didn’t need their money," he said. "I think the most difficult thing was that our opponents were mainly powerful companies, but we did not hold back because we believe the law can give us justice," Guan said.Currently Guan is preparing for the National Bar exam. "I’ll keep on taking on cases while preparing for the exam because I want to be a lawyer," he said.
