Finding a future in a factory
Time to get back to work, right? Well, not everyone is. Which brings us to our next major topic: The labor shortage.You’ve no doubt seen the headlines. Companies in the Pearl River Delta area have been facing a major labor shortage since the Spring Festival. Industries have been hit hard there. Guangzhou alone has an estimated 150,000 vacancies – compared with practically zero last year.At the same time, we see an endless number of reports about what a hard time college grads are having finding a job. And how starting salaries have been dropping, in many cases to around 2,000 yuan a month. What we have is a labor shortage and gloomy job prospects existing side-by-side, so some people are asking: What would happen if college grads were to lower their expectations and take a factory job?21st Century has spoken with college grads who headed down this path and has found some mixed feelings.He’s not bragging, but at least he has a job.It’s not like any of those interesting jobs his friends have and there’s not much to brag about it, but Su Huolian’s pleased with his first job. The 22-year-old Su graduated from Guilin University of Electronic Technology, in automation, last July. After a long, hard job search, the only offers he was getting were on assembly lines. After several sleepless nights, he decided to take a factory job. “I’m an adult and need to feed myself, and pay off my student loans,” he explained.He chose an electronic company in Guilin. While a factory job might not be great, he said, it was no sweatshop. Any company using the latest technology might give him a place to move up from.He became an adjustor on the production line. He had to repeat the same dumb move over and over, a thousand times a day, with his mind a complete blank. His co-workers were all from a lower background. But he found he was at ease chatting with them and they were more than happy to share useful tips with him on how to work better. After work, however, he’s alone in his room, thinking about the future. His salary of 1,500 yuan, along with insurance, helps him survive in the medium-sized city. But it’s not enough to support a family. And, “what if I’m not as healthy then as now,” he asks himself. Su feels sad when he hears about his classmates on the career path in some big corporation. But he reminds himself to be optimistic and think positively: “Even if I can only see a few steps out ahead of me, I need to focus on taking those steps straight and steady.”
