Ship a beat, not a budget
Li Xiaoxue enjoyed romantic dates at the cinema, dining in high-end restaurants and hitting pricey shopping malls with her boyfriend. But meanwhile, this 23-year-old English major at Heilongjiang International University was faced with what she called a “financial crisis”.“We spent a lot each month unconsciously – once the cost even reached 4,000 yuan. It’s terrible,” she said.Relationships not only consume time and energy, but also money, and love doctor and Beijing-based author Ye Qingcheng recommends student couples take an active role in keeping an eye on their spending.For many students, long-distance relationships are more expensive. Luo Huang, 20, a mechanical and electrical engineering major at Northwestern Polytechnical University in Shaanxi, spends more than 1,000 yuan to see his girlfriend in Hubei twice a semester.If you both believe such romantic experiences are indispensable, then you had better share the bills rather than letting the male carry the burden alone, said Li Yang, a dating expert working in Beijing.“But it doesn’t mean you each have to pay half of the bill. Male students can pay the majority while female students pay the rest,” said Li. “It fits in our culture that men want to take good care of their lovers.”Making a budget also helps, said Geng Chuanyang, 20, an English major at Northeast Normal University.When Geng sees possible money troubles in his future, he directly talks to his girlfriend to trim down their date schedule.“She is always understanding. After all, we are students,” he said.Luo, who is in a long-distance relationship, books only discounted flight tickets, hotels, and restaurants. He also masters his spur-of-the-moment spending impulses. “I don’t buy new video games randomly like before,” he said.Li Yang suggests students put aside a certain sum of money in a so-called love fund. “It can effectively control consumption,” he said.He also suggests an array of free dating options, such as running and watching movies online.However, a more proactive way to solve the problem would be making money, not just saving money.Almost half of college students in love said they were doing part-time jobs to cover their expenditures, Yangtze Evening News reported. Li Xiaoxue is one of these cash-conscious workers. She has been a home tutor, a salesperson and one of the many who distribute leaflets on the street. “It’s not just for love. The experience has taught me a lot of practical skills,” she said.Some parents support their children’s romantic relationships. A survey conducted by dating website baihe.com last year shows that 19.6 percent of parents will give their college children extra “pocket money” to sustain a romantic relationship. Luo Huan has been getting an extra 500 yuan each month since he got a girlfriend.“They support me, but I feel bad about it. I have tried to cut costs anyway,” he said.
