Post-study work visa abolished
She had planned what to do after graduation in the UK: two years’ work experience at a restaurant and a tour around Europe.But now her plans are up in the air since the news broke that the UK government is going to abolish the post-study work visa for international undergraduates and postgraduates.Wang Lu, 24, is a postgraduate majoring in business & management studies at Edinburgh’s Napier University.Following the UK Home Secretary’s consultation on reform of the student immigration system, the UK government recently announced the closure of the post-study work visa from April 2012.This will force tens of thousands of Chinese students to leave the UK after graduation.“I will graduate in May next year. It is really a pity,” said Wang who has turned to recruitment websites of China.Wang is one of many students studying abroad who’ll come home for work. According to statistics released by the Ministry of Education, more than 134,800 Chinese people studying overseas returned in 2010. This figure was 26,500 more than in 2009.Sadly, the domestic job market doesn’t welcome them with open arms. A report by Tigtag.com at the end of 2011 showed that more than 35 percent of students admitted that they have employment problems.“Returning students often have fluent English, creative minds and a serious attitude toward work,” said Zhang Tingwen, a HR expert in ChinaHR.com. “But lack of work experience is a big obstacle.”Xia Lei, HR manager in NVC Lighting Technology Corporation in Shenzhen, echoed Zhang.“We recruit people who can work for us. We don’t need people from big name universities to attract clients,” said Xia.Differences in work practices is another problem that worries employers, Zhang pointed out. “Some returning students might be used to Western ways of dealing with people and things.”Huang Shanshan, 25, graduated in business administration from the University of Hertfordshire in the UK last summer and got a job in a communication company in Shenzhen in October.She was reprimanded during her first week at work for eating in the workplace.“I worked part-time in UK. My colleagues ate snacks when they felt hungry, even during working time or in meetings.”When she came back to work for the Shenzhen company, Huang brought some cup cakes to the office and ate them. When her manager saw that, he told her off.“It took me some time to adjust to company rules in China,” said Huang.
