New generation sets its own agenda
UPON arrival at Beijing Capital International Airport, Xue Duoxiao, 17, switched on his cell phone. He browsed the news on microblogs, and sneaked into friends’ QQ farms and stole some "ripe" vegetables, before searching online for directions to China Agricultural University.Xue is one of the 6.57 million Chinese freshmen who will begin college life this year. Dubbed the Class of 2014, they are the first batch of freshmen in the new decade of 2010. Xue and his peers, both those living in China and abroad, have caused quite a stir as the media and sociologists rush to define them.Beloit College in Wisconsin, US, compiled a list of cultural touchstones to define the incoming freshmen, describing them as "having digital in their DNA". Forbes magazine recently also ran a story about Western media’s inaccurate portrayal of China’s youth.Similar to the situation in the US, the digital era has also left a significant mark on China’s Class of 2014 - Xue’s immediate use of digital technology on arrival in Beijing is a case in point.Digital has always been with this generation. They were born into the age of the cellphone. In primary school, they made friends online through QQ. They defended their idols and lifestyles in online forums. But they don’t see themselves as "rebels". They are happy, well-adjusted young adults who are ready to surpass the achievements of previous generations.Identity parade"Growing up with easy access to information, they tend to form their own judgments, independent from the influence of their elders," said Sun Yunxiao, deputy director of the China Youth and Children Research Center. In Sun’s eyes, they are "a naughty generation".But in the eyes of the freshmen themselves, they are no different from the young adults of previous generations. They are simply seeking recognition, both from their parents and from wider society."My parents place many restrictions on me. I can’t choose my own hairstyle or clothes. I can’t choose which major to take. I can’t even choose my own brand of toothpaste," complained He Changping, 17, a freshman at Shenzhen University.He is understandably excited about college life. "Being a college student and an adult might give me a greater sense of "authority". Hopefully I will be in a better position to express my opinions."In order to identify the Class of 2014, the media has been buzzing about this year’s "star" freshmen.Li Kan, the 18-year-old son of Taiwanese writer Li Ao, has enrolled at Peking University. His book about Taiwan’s textbooks has gained him fame among his peers. Also, mainland starlet Zhang Yishan, 18, is going to Beijing Film Academy this autumn.No representativeBut it is not attractive to the Class of 2014 "if one leader were to rise up and call for everyone’s support", wrote Kevin Lee at Forbes, because Chinese youth "are experiencing an evolving sense of individuality and identity".Freshman Xue Duoxiao agrees. He believes this generation are confident in themselves and don’t need a leader to speak on their behalf."In recent years, the post-80s generation has achieved a lot and received great praise for their performance during the Beijing Olympics and their efforts to help the Wenchuan earthquake relief work," said Xue."But we can do better than them. This is our time."
