China opens door wider
When Gabriel Stoian roamed his Beijing university campus 10 years ago, people stared at him. Passersby even whispered about his odd appearance and accent.Today, Stoian, a Romanian, is 30 and not even the chef in the students’ canteen gives him a second glance.Stoian, an engineer, has studied in China for a decade. He said: “Everyone is used to seeing foreigners now. The growing number of us on the campus means I am no longer unique or exotic.”According to statistics released by the Ministry of Education, the number of foreigners studying in China reached 260,000 in 2010. More than 66 percent of them come from neighboring Asian countries.The figure will reach 500,000 in 2020, and China will be the biggest destination for students in Asia.The ministry says it’s to “implement China’s 10-year national education outline and part of the county’s diplomatic work to show Chinese culture to the global community.”Tsinghua University alone enrolled 1,959 foreign students on long-term courses in 2010.Wu Yunxin, director of the foreign student affairs office at Tsinghua University, believes there are many reasons for the rise in overseas students since the financial crisis of 2008.“The application procedure for foreigners to study in China is easier. The scholarship system is mature,” Wu said. “China’s growing economic strength is an attractive underlying factor.”The foreign influx gives Chinese students the chance to experience different cultures.Shang Jianlou, 21, a junior majoring in computer science at Fudan University, felt as if she had walked onto the set of a US TV drama, when she entered the nearby international students’ apartment block.“The feeling gets stronger especially when I attend the night fair outside school. People sell products such as Indian silk.”For others, cultural exchange is deeper than finding bargains. Shen Jia, 20, was a junior majoring in mathematics at the South China University of Technology. She found that in her university Japanese students set up a “sakura club” in 2008, which teaches judo and the knowledge of Japanese tea serving and drinking culture of “sado”.The presence of overseas students has influenced the neighborhood. It’s more consumer-oriented. People’s lifestyle have altered.Cafes and bars line the streets; cheese, baguette and mustard are on supermarket shelves; and baggy hip-hop clothing hangs in fashion stores near the campus. Prices have gone up too.Lu Hua, 23, a senior in Shanghai Jiaotong University, liked cheap Chinese restaurants near the campus. But stylish South Korean and Japanese eateries have taken their place. He can’t afford to dine in them.Lu said: “A seven-yuan bowl of Lanzhou noodles becomes a 30-yuan bowl of Japanese noodle. My classmates still choose to dine there because it’s trendy.”Management problems also arise with the foreigners’ arrival. The growth in their numbers requires a higher level of English teaching and other services.They pose challenges for administrators: There’s no simple solution to some conflicts related to lifestyle or culture.Many Westerners and Asians hold late-night parties with loud rock music. Some get drunk and brawl.Jiang Zaide, 22, a senior majoring in human resource management at Dalian University of Technology complained: “Our school rule is that we turn off the lights at 11 pm. The noise from the foreign dorm building was a nightmare.”Public displays of affection such as kissing and hugging also offend some Chinese students.Professor Guo Peng is president of College of Chinese Language Studies at Beijing Language and Culture University. He admits that, compared with developed countries, we are short of experience of managing students from diverse cultures and backgrounds.“Conflict could be avoided if we fully understand and respect different lifestyles. We’re working into that direction,” he said.Wu Yunxin from Tsinghua also agrees that foreign students require guidance in observing the rules of their host country.
