Misleading expectations
Judging from his pile of train tickets, Xie Cheng must travel a lot. So it’s odd that the 24-year-old history major knows nothing about the local attractions or food in the cities he’s visited – Qingdao, Lanzhou, Changchun, Yichang, Changzhou, Shijiazhuang, to name a few.Xie is one of many young Chinese graduates who have been caught in the civil service mania of recent years, hoping that their toil in taking the exams will land them a stable career with a decent income and a respectful social status.“I have taken the national entrance exam for the central government’s civil service three times, and about a dozen times for civil service jobs in other provinces and cities,” said Xie.For Xie, the civil service paints a promising future. “It would mean a change of fate,” said Xie. “By becoming a civil servant, an apartment, cars and a happy family would be within my reach.”In order to realize one’s dream, one has to be willing to fight for it. According to the State Administration of Civil Service, the national exam for civil servant admission to central government agencies hit a new record in 2012, with 109 positions receiving more than 1,000 applications each.Liu Manping, an economist at a Beijing-based think tank, thinks the phenomenon reflects people’s sense of insecurity in a fluctuating market and economy.“More fierce social competition tends to push people to play safe,” said Liu. “With high housing prices and the rising cost of medication, some of the welfare benefits extended to civil servants can cure these headaches.”However, according to Zhu Lijia, from the Chinese Academy of Governance, there has been a trend of phasing out public servants’ privileges in medication and housing.A report by China’s Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security indicates that by 2012, 24 out of 31 provinces and municipalities reformed medication benefits for civil servants.“The inequality embodied in the traditional medication benefit has to be tackled,” said Zhu. “Social welfare systems must cover everyone indiscriminately.”As for Xie: Earlier this year he finally managed to become a quality inspector in a small city in Shanxi province. But his daily routine is far from the ideal picture he had in mind.“The workload is huge and we work late into the night on most days,” said Xie. “The salary just reaches the local average, so I’m a bit disillusioned. But at least I don’t need to worry about losing my job for a while.”
