Student realizes his dream
As the audience sat quietly in the dark, the lights came on and music started playing. Then Xu Tianqi, 22, appeared on the catwalk in his fantasy world of modeling.The junior student is majoring in fashion performance and marketing at Zhejiang Sci-Tech University. Last month, the 1.90-meter-tall student flew to Los Angeles for a competition organized by the International Modeling and Talent Association. He came second.Ever since winning his first prize at the Shanghai International Model Competition in October, Xu’s life has not been the same.“I had worked very hard for three years to become a model,” said Xu. “When I saw the shyness in the other competitors’ eyes, I felt confident in my heart because I had practiced for a long time for that moment.”People see him as a green hand in the modeling industry, but Xu knows exactly how much he has devoted to the trade.Xu first began to attend training courses to become a professional model in the last year of senior high school. Before that he studied the piano, but he struggled with music theory.“I had to develop a special skill. Since I was over 1.85 meters in height, I decided to learn modeling,” said Xu.He once attended a training school in Harbin for three months, where he learned how to walk, stand and even dance. After enrolling into his university, Xu was in no hurry to attend competitions, but he still practiced the most basic modeling skills.“To make my legs straight, I stood against a wall with a piece of paper between my legs and the wall for at least one hour every day,” said Xu. “If the paper fell down, I kept standing for an extra 15 minutes.”He also did body building four days a week and practiced walking on the dormitory roof.In order to keep fit, Xu didn’t allow himself to eat big meals. “To maintain a balanced diet, I avoided any greasy, fried and high-starch foods. My list of banned foods included meat, noodles, steamed buns and potato chips,” said Xu.He learned how the models for top brands moved by watching video clips of fashion shows. But he also practiced by taking part-time jobs. So far, Xu has modeled in shopping malls and shot advertisements for small stores on Taobao, an online shopping website. Sometimes he even did so for free to gain experience.Now, two of the world’s top 10 model agencies have contacted Xu, but he’s still considering which one to pick.“When I make my decision, I hope the agency will help me audition for the coming New York Fashion Week. That is what I desire most in the short term,” said Xu.Few models have such a good educational background as Xu and he believes that his studies will not go to waste. In fact, Xu reads a lot in his spare time. When he flew back from Los Angeles, there was a copy of Steve Jobs’ autobiography in his luggage.“People always think that models make a living only with their face and body, but being cultivated is very important,” said Xu. “You need to know about fashion, history, society as well as people’s emotions. So when a photographer asks you for a historic pose, you can easily reproduce it.”
