Loan traps hit home
Fu Yanxi could not help buying an iPhone at only a third of its market price in January. But now he is running into trouble – failing to pay the monthly due will damage his credit record.“I regret my decision now. I thought I could squeeze out some 550 yuan every month to cover the loan,” said the 22-year-old English major at Central China Normal University. “As it turns out I’m not very good at managing my limited budget.”Fu is not alone. According to a recent report in Wuhan Evening News, more than 20,000 students in the city, which has about 1 million college students, have taken out loans to buy smartphones, tablets and other digital gadgets.Experts say college students are inexperienced with handling credit. They should first learn to manage their basic budget and become more responsible, both financially and mentally.Zhang Shuyi, 21, felt reassured when the salesman explained the 12-month loan to him. He walked away with a 2,300-yuan smartphone having paid only 230 yuan. The process looked easy enough and it took less than 15 minutes for his student ID, citizen ID and an activated bankcard to be checked.“It was easy and the monthly due was only 250 yuan,” recalled the information engineering major at Wuhan University of Technology. Later he purchased a digital camera in the same way.But when Zhang couldn’t pay, he turned to his parents for help. A short calculation revealed that he had to pay 3,600 yuan for his 2,300 yuan phone, even though the initial payment looked minimal.A lack of basic finance knowledge is one of the major reasons why students are falling into the credit purchase trap, said Chen Xin (not his real name), a credit manager at a local bank.“What they see is only the small initial payment to take the gadget home,” said Chen. “Some don’t realize that interest is charged on the loan. In Zhang’s case it was more than 40 percent, which is basically usury.”Wuhan Morning News conducted a survey on student budgets across five local universities. The report indicates that on average students have a monthly budget of 1,000 yuan. Interestingly, more than 30 percent of respondents said they usually exceed their budget.“Everything was taken care of for these students before they entered college,” said Shen Qinlin, an education PhD based in Beijing. “It can be very challenging for them to suddenly manage a budget all alone. But it’s a lesson they have to learn sooner or later.”
