Delicate job decisions
Apart from searching online, looking at classified ads, and contacting employment agencies, there are alternative ways of finding a job: using personal contacts, or networking.As hordes of fresh grads enter the job market every year, many of them ask their parents or relatives to do them a favor by using their connections.Although many get a job this way, career experts warn that resorting to such a method cannot ensure a promising future.Miao Lixiao, 25, who graduated in Chinese literature from Guangxi University, knows this all too well. His parents found him a job as a counter clerk at the Bank of China, but he doesn’t like it at all.“Working for a bank is boring and there is a lot of pressure. The competition is so fierce that it is difficult to get along with colleagues,” said Miao, who has been with the company for three years but was never promoted.He suggests researching the position offered by your parents’ contact and declining opportunities you really don’t like.“You should still pursue what you yourself want and not what you think others expect of you. This is the only way you can be fulfilled and, ultimately, succeed,” he said.Even after a company has opened its doors, it still requires immense effort and expertise to survive in the workplace. “There is a saying that seems appropriate: ‘A master teaches the trade, but the apprentice’s skill is self-made’,” said Chen Lin, chief consultant at Zhaopin.com, a leading recruitment website.Human resource managers advise that if you are offered a job through personal contacts, ask for detailed information before accepting the position.“The person who introduces you to the field can provide some insightful information,” said Diao Zhenyu, HR manager at China Southern Glass Holding Limited in Shenzhen. “You should also do research yourself to get a basic understanding of the company.”If you join the company, it is important to be considerate toward your colleagues, as they may realize you got the position through a connection.“You need to work hard and be patient in order to foster a good relationship with others. Always be respectful and considerate toward your supervisor,” said Chen. He also suggested that even if graduates know a senior person in the company, they should never boast in front of colleagues.“If you do, you will put others in an uncomfortable position and they might turn you down when you need their help.”Furthermore, when starting a new job, never expect friends, parents, the university faculty or other contacts to help you. Mu Yuanguang, HR manager at Hainan Airlines, also urged graduates not to try too hard to prove themselves.“Slow down, be patient, and try to enjoy the process. This can speed up your chances of future success in the workplace,” said Mu.
