Top scientist heads West
Yan Ning, a biology professor in Tsinghua University, is a high-profile female scientist in China. She has been called China’s “Goddess scientist” on social media for her fashionable looks and outstanding research work. And in May, she became the talk of social media once again when she announced she would leave Tsinghua for an Ivy League university in the US.Yan will join Princeton University this autumn as a tenured professor. She may even be the first professor from the Chinese mainland to be given such a high position from a top global university, according to China Youth Daily.Yan, 40, had studied both in Tsinghua University and Princeton University. During her time in Tsinghua, Yan led a research team that made breakthroughs on several diseases, including cancer and diabetes. In 2016, she was named as one of the 10 “science stars of China” by Nature magazine.However, her leaving was seen by some Chinese internet users as “unpatriotic”, with them accusing her of placing self-interest above the needs of her country. Others linked her leaving with her unpleasant experience of the grant application process.In 2014, Yan posted on her blog to complain how the National Natural Science Foundation had refused her team’s grant application. She was disappointed that management officials were unwilling to support high-risk research.But Yan denied this was the reason for her move, explaining her desireto experience a new environment is what made her mind up.“I was afraid being in an environment for too long would make me ignorant without even knowing it,” Yan told Guangming Daily. “Changing my environment will … hopefully help achieve new breakthroughs in science.”Yan is not the only Chinese researcher to have left China to join a foreign university.According to an unnamed Tsinghua University spokesperson, in recent years, more and more of the university’s doctoral graduates have left to join leading overseas universities.Meanwhile, China is also attracting top global talents. Part of this is thanks to the 1,000 Talent Plan. It aims to attract talented people from other countries to China in order to improve the country’s ability to innovate. Since its establishment in 2008, it’s attracted over 6,000 top talents, according to news website China News.“This exchange … is normal,” commented Science and Technology Daily. “Along with the deepening of international scientific exchange, there will be more talents flowing between countries.”And this mutual communication could also benefit the education system. As China Daily wrote, “If more talents flow between Chinese universities and their top global partners, the gap [of the number of top professors] between them will further shrink.”
