Celebration to remember
Caps and gowns, laughter and tears. It’s time for another set of graduates to say goodbye to their school days. There is no better way to celebrate these memorable moments and honor the passed youth than by taking photos. However, taking unique graduation photos requires some creative ideas. Here are popular styles and poses that previous graduates have experimented with.Background of wishesThe end of school time means the beginning of a new phase in life. Graduation season is a time to reflect on the past and look forward to the future.Students from a Russian high school wrote their dreams on a blackboard and posed in front of it. Graduates from Hangzhou Dianzi University also followed this style. It is a good way to remind you not to forget your initial dreams and encourage you to fight for them. Just free your imagination and draw whatever you want.Stand out with decorative capsDecorating caps is welcomed by foreign university students. Caps and gowns usually give graduates a uniform look, but eye-catching decorations can make them stand out and create impressive pictures.Writing messages on caps, like “Thanks mom and dad”, or “Genius grad” are popular choices. Asking your classmates or teachers to sign their names with colorful sketch pens is a good idea, too. You can also add embellishments like glittering stars, sequins, pastel colors, decorative beads, colorful crystals, or laces to draw more attention.Historic imitationWhether its film posters or famous world paintings, they always give graduates inspiration. In 2008, more than 40 graduates from Guanghua School of Management at Peking University reproduced the scene of Italian painter Raphael’s great work The School of Athens. Popular film posters like You Are the Apple of My Eye, American Dreams in China are also choices for creative graduates. This style requires more time and cooperation, as all participants should use different poses and hold them for some time.Beyond gownsGraduation photos are not just about gowns. You can play with many styles of clothing to create a variety of images. Chinese tunic suits let you go back to the 1920s, while a traditional cheongsam gives you an elegant look. Some students wear clothes in Han Chinese clothing to enjoy the fun of traveling through time.This year, graduates in Anhui University even used wedding dresses. So, don’t limit yourself.
