Clubs struggle to survive
One cold winter night, a group of shivering college students practiced tae kwon do in the university playground. Yang Xiuping, 20, a sophomore in English, is the head of the tae kwon do club at Xi’an International Studies University. She wants to offer club members a warm indoor training place, but her club cannot afford it. Without financial aid from the school, Yang’s club lives on membership fees of about 500 yuan per year, far below the cost of renting a training venue. Club membership has also fallen from 100 to 20 in the last six months. Yang’s is one of the many marginalized school clubs in danger of dying out. These clubs are small in size and lacking in money. Societies such as volunteering groups are likely to get more support as they reflect positively on schools. Earlier this month, a dozen clubs at Peking University lost their meeting place when the university announced plans to turn their underground area into a parking lot. “Help us to find a new meeting place, otherwise we cannot survive,” wrote one club in an open letter to the school. There is no doubt that school clubs and societies play a big part in campus life. “Students’ interests are diverse, so school clubs and societies should keep their diversity too,” said Fang Lin, secretary of the committee of the Youth League at Shenzhen University. “Campus life will lose its variety and vigor if marginalized clubs die out.” According to statistics published by Beijing Committee of China Communist Youth League in 2008, each college in Beijing had about 50 school clubs and societies on average. Unfortunately, schools cannot fund every club. Therefore, most school clubs are self-funded, mostly from membership fees. “I don’t understand why schools keep pouring money into new buildings that we may not need, but never plan to establish funds to help school clubs and societies which are essential to student life,” complained Chen Jingyu, 21, a sophomore at Nantong University. Chen is in charge of fundraising for his school’s clubs and societies. He understands that it’s difficult to persuade enterprises to sponsor campus activities as schools place many restrictions on sponsors: outdoor stands are forbidden; and logos cannot be too big. “Restrictions are set to prevent campus activities from becoming overly commercialized. After all, it’s a student activity not a sales promotion,” explained Fang. However, she emphasized that schools encourage students to be proactive in their quest for funding. “Students shouldn’t just sit and wait for the school’s help. They need to be self-reliant,” said Fang. “After all, a school club is also a classroom where students can hone their management and communication skills.” Zhang Chi, 20, a sophomore in German at Beijing Foreign Studies University, took over the hip-hop dancing club when, with only four members, it was on the verge of being disbanded. As Zhang couldn’t put on dance shows to attract new members, he decided to use new members’ money to hire professional dance instructors to give classes. He also saved money by advertising on Renren.com instead of printing posters.Zhang spent a month working tirelessly to prepare, including negotiating with the dance instructors to ensure the best possible price. The club now boasts over 100 members and plans to wow fellow students with a performance soon. “I was tired, of course. But I felt proud when I saw the club come back to life,” said Zhang. 
