Students inventing the future
A one-person solar car that can be transformed into an electric moped, a door light powered by opening and closing a door and a cloak of invisibility are three innovative inventions recently created by college students.Here comes the sunThe 100-kilogram blue solar car invented by 10 students at Southwest University’s College of Engineering and Technology in Chongqing has a top with four solar panels that charge the battery that powers the auto. Its speed is between 30-40 kilometers per hour and when fully powered the car can be driven as far as 50 kilometers."The car is easy to drive. A person without any driving experiences could learn to use it in several minutes. It fits for campus and the golf course," said He Daijie, the leader of the invention team and a senior at the college. Or if one prefers it can be turned into moped scooter, he said.Seeing the lightFour students at Shenyang University of Technology in Liaoning Province invented a door light powered by electrical energy produced by opening and closing a door.When people open or close a door, the door produces mechanical energy that could be turned into electric energy. After numerous tests for several months, the students fixed a joint lever above the door that connects the door and a speeding gear case to drive a generator attached to the door and send energy to storage cells. The storage cells provide electrical energy for the light. A college student’s dorm door is opened and closed about 60-100 times a day, which could produce 160-280 milliamps of electric energy. It takes 160 milliamps to keep a light working for at least 10 hours, said Xia Yingbiao, one of the invention team members and a mechanical design and manufacturing and automation junior.If light-emitting diode (LED) lights were used with the invention at all entrances in Shenyang schools, about 700,000 kilowatt hours a year would be saved, the team said. The university is applying patents for the invention.Invisibility cloakMany people daydream of an invisibility cloak like Harry Potter’s and three graduate students in optics from Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics have actually invented one.Special Ferro-electric materials on the cloak reduce the scattering of light of an object wrapped with the cloak, and thus making the object "invisible," according to Li Peining, one of the three students."There are many invisibility cloaks based on various theories, but their light frequencies are different because there are some limitations on the frequencies. Our cloaks can control all kinds of light frequencies by adjusting them, making the cloaks more widely used," said Li Peining.
