Film major seeks truth
Chen Yuzhou left Changsha train station with mixed feelings last month. The 21-year-old film and television drama literature major at Southwest University had just finished shooting a documentary about homeless people who live at the station during Spring Festival. His intention was to help them by raising awareness for their situation, but it became an important life lesson for Chen.Helping handChen has always shown concern for vulnerable groups. During last year’s Spring Festival, the group of homeless people at Changsha train station caught his eyes. Although they had big bags, they weren’t in a hurry to catch a train and go home happily. “It seemed like these 40- and 50-year-olds were living in the station,” says Chen.He immediately felt pity for them. After chatting with them, Chen decided to make a documentary about them to let more people know of their situation and help them.“I felt it was my responsibility to help them through what I’m good at,” says Chen. According to him, helping others and raising awareness of such issues has become a trend in universities across the country. “Students are increasingly using their knowledge and skills to help people in need,” he says.Chen used his video camera to capture the homeless people’s struggle. The touching story won him the Best Documentary award at the 20th Beijing Student Film Festival in May.Hard realityThe success of Chen’s movie has turned the public’s attention to homeless people. But it also sparked controversy, especially after the documentary was put online, with some viewers criticized their craftiness.As Chen discovered while shooting the documentary, some of the homeless people tried to exploit his team. “They thought we were journalists, so they took us along when they went to the relief station. They thought with us around, they would get more support,” says Chen.As shown in the documentary, one of the homeless people received a free train ticket from the relief station but then got a refund for it at the ticket office. This behavior shocked Chen.“I worried about it a lot and that’s why I waited so long before putting it online,” he says.Chen realized that the documentary should reflect the reality of the homeless people’s lives, even if the truth is sometimes hard to accept.“No matter what, I must present the truth and let the audience decide what to think of it,” says Chen.
