Student art goes outside the box
For students majoring in art, theater and film, graduation is a festival event: They are showcasing their best work on campuses all over the country.This tradition is all at once personal and public. The artists are making statements about how they see the world. The public is getting a glimpse of the emerging creative talent.Kan Tai-keung, dean of the Cheung Kong School of Art and Design at Shantou University, looks forward to this time every year because he is able to see and enjoy art that is mostly unstained by a thirst for money or fame. “There is no wall confining students’ minds,” said Kan. “They gain inspiration from various cultures and styles, and they focus on their interests and dreams.”Student artists agree that the university shelters them from outside pressures and allows them to exercise their own minds.“We can think more creatively when we keep our work away from ‘money pollution’,” said 24-year-old Meng Lingjiao, a senior majoring in acting at Shanghai Theater Academy. In a stage production, she and her classmates played out five dreams where young people talk about their study and love worries. To create an “in-the-dream” atmosphere, they put the audience in the center of the theater and the cast performed around them. The audience are “deliberately” invited to confuse their own life experiences with those of the characters. Many other young artists like Meng use graduation projects to display their own understanding of social issues and childhood memories. And their unrestrained creativity can lead to a new way of looking at traditions. Pollution-free artKan, the Shantou University dean, cited work produced by an American student to further explain his excitement about the creativity of students.The US Vietnam Veterans Memorial was designed by American Maya Ying Lin in 1982. Lin was a 21-year-old architecture major at Yale University at the time. The design she submitted to the US government was given a B by her Yale professor, but the government committee saw her design as refreshingly creative and unique.“Experienced designers believed the memorial should stand high,” said Kan. “But she designed one that stayed low to the ground, like a scar on the earth cut by the war. It showed the greatness of young imagination.”Tang Bo, a 22-year-old senior majoring in experimental art at the Central Academy of Fine Arts, sees his graduation design as a challenge to tradition. It’s an emperor’s chair made of biscuits.To Tang, the emperor’s chair stands for power and old tradition in China. “Traditions don’t have to be serious. So in my design, the chair becomes something delicious,” Tang explained.Tang says he and his artistic peers share a natural bond with young audiences, because their “Muses” are often memories and images shared by the whole generation. “I guess many of young people had a childhood dream of living in a big house made of candies,” he said.“Maybe after graduation we’ll have to design for the market,” said Tang. “But in our last days at college, we know what it’s like to insist on making our own creations.”
