Just call him 'professor'
On the first day of classes at a Los Angeles high school, several American boys came up to a Chinese boy and said: “Hi, what’s up?” Upon hearing their greeting, the boy, who had just moved to the US with his parents, raised his head and looked at the sky.This is a story told by David Chen (陈亦飞), a 31-year-old actor in Taiwan who recently launched a Sina mini-blog, on which he teaches easy English expressions.“I’ve always learned language from everyday life. I’ve been laughed at and bullied because I couldn’t understand others’ words,” said Chen, “but it helped me remember many expressions.”After moving back to Taiwan in 2002, Chen made his debut in the TV drama My MVP Valentine (《MVP情人》). He also worked part-time as an English teacher, teaching children aged 3-6. Chen said the experience taught him how to help others learn the language. By sharing his own anecdotes behind English slang on his mini-blog, he’s trying to make others laugh and learn.“I will keep doing it, and maybe publish a book some day,” said Chen. “To me, the mini-blog is like a mirror. When I read the comments, I see myself more clearly. And I hope readers can see it as a window through which they can get closer to me and also to the English language and its culture.”Chen made another breakthrough last year when he had a double-eyelid surgery. “I like making changes and I think it’s necessary,” he said. “I know many fans like my pretty boy image. But now I’m growing up, I want to look rougher and more mature.”With a mustache, longer hair, the double-eyelids and a new name (formerly, 陈宇凡), Chen’s image change has attracted more attention. On Taiwan entertainment shows like Kangxi Comes, he sometimes has been mocked for his new look.“When you have a new haircut, you do not need to explain it. It’s just like changing your mood–if you feel happy, that’s great,” said Chen. “Young people should realize that sometimes you can just do what you want to do. You will eventually get support from others if you dare to be yourself.”
