Student’s passion for tricks reaps rewards
Wearing a dashing gray suit, Zhang Zhaolong stands behind a table. There are three red *chips in his right hand, but in the *blink of an eye one of the red chips appears in his left hand.Then, all of a sudden, all three chips disappear from his hands. As the audience is still caught in amazement, Zhang reaches into his pocket and takes out the chips.The 24-year-old “Harry Potter” is an animation major student at Dalian Neusoft University of Information. On July 14 at Tsinghua University he was crowned the top magician at the 6th College Magic *Convention of the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan.According to Zhang, his passion for doing magic helped him overcome many hurdles set by his parents, the boring practice and being a latecomer to the art of magic.Late birdZhang’s first exposure to magic came when he was 5 years old. He watched a street magician perform the linking rings trick, in which two solid metal rings are repeatedly linked together and unlinked.But Zhang didn’t start his own journey of magic until he saw Liu Qian, one of China’s top magicians, perform on the 2009 CCTV Spring Festival Gala. The magic show inspired Zhang to start learning magic and Liu has been his role model ever since.“What’s so fascinating about Liu’s performances is that he uses ordinary items as his magic *props. Things that we use every day, like rubber bands, coins and cups,” Zhang says. “It made me think that magic is not impossible. Maybe I could learn it myself.”At the age of 20, Zhang learned his first magic trick. It was a simple coin trick in which you grab ash out of the air, put it in your hand, breathe magic into it and there appears the coin. Zhang learned the trick by watching Liu’s online teaching program. After three days of practice, he performed it in front of his friends. “I remember being extremely nervous. I could feel the sweat in my hands,” he says.No-no from parentsBut Zhang’s parents didn’t encourage their son to learn magic. They thought Zhang’s interest in magic wouldn’t last and worried it would distract him from studying.“Parents often misunderstand magic,” Zhang says. “They think magic is nothing but tricks that aim to fool people with props. In fact, the art of magic involves mathematics, physics, chemistry, psychology and performance, which are all difficult to learn.”Secrets of magic“There are no secrets to magic other than practice,” says Zhang. Magic is a difficult subject and he devotes a lot of time to practicing. Often, Zhang spends several days and nights practicing just one trick, because for him, knowing a trick doesn’t mean he can perform it well. Only through constant practice can Zhang master the trick and perform it in front of an audience.“Practice is extremely important for magicians like us who perform close-up magic, which requires a certain amount of communication with the audience,” he says.Zhang’s performance style is a bit like stand-up comedy. During his magic shows, he uses gestures and jokes to make his audience laugh. The audience’s reaction drives the performance forward.Speaking about the award, Zhang says his pure love for magic will lead the way. “I’m going to continue as a part-time magician as I love magic so much. I really enjoy interacting with my audiences and bringing them happiness,” he says.
