Fresh take on online education
You may be familiar with massive open online courses (MOOCs) delivered by professors from prestigious universities. But a new open course provider has a slightly different approach - its lecturers are all students.Its name is One-man University. The online college in China offers a wide range of interesting teaching programs that convey knowledge in an accessible way. It’s worthwhile taking time in this winter vacation to experience it.Offering alternativesStudents teaching students may sound absurd, but this mechanism has been welcomed by One-man University’s tens of thousands of followers.They believe that the core competitiveness of One-man University comes from allowing student lecturers to inspire other students to learn. Besides, student lecturers teach and explain knowledge in a way that may be more understandable than professors in universities.“One-man University encourages participants to learn things through their own efforts. On the way, they’ll find they have infinite possibilities,” says Tong Zhe, 26, the founder of One-man University.Bringing inspirationThe online college is an open platform for both lecturers and receivers.If students are interested in a course, they can either take offline classes or watch online course videos for free. But the former requires registration.According to Tong, the knowledge content of a course provided by One-man University is equal to that of a university course in one semester.Fu Zhengcheng, 22, a physics major at Zhejiang Normal University, is one of the student followers of Tong’s online college. He thinks the beauty of the platform is the well-structured courses that allow knowledge to be logically explained.“Each course takes 16 hours to complete,” says Tong. “It is divided into several sessions, with each session taking about 20 minutes to cover one knowledge point.”Though students’ positive feedback shows that One-man University’s courses are a success, Tong believes the main value of One-man University lies in the message it conveys.“It makes students believe that self-study is not difficult and they can learn a subject that’s different from their college major,” says Tong. “After that, they can search for more quality online resources, such as on Coursera, edX and Khan Academy (various platforms that offer MOOCs to students worldwide).”Open stageAs for students who want to share knowledge with others, One-man University offers them a stage.“We select lecturers based on the following two criteria: First, they should be academically qualified. Second, they need to deliver understandable lectures,” says Tong. To be more specific, if someone wants to teach mathematics at One-man University, their audition lectures must be approved by a student panel consisting both of mathematics majors and non-mathematics majors invited by Tong.Easy as it seems, only few meet these requirements. According to Tong, One-man University only has a few dozen lecturers, all of whom have graduated from foreign postgraduate programs. However, he maintains a positive attitude.“As long as we stick to our standards, we will attract more students and qualified lecturers. There’s a long way to go for One-man University,” he says.
