Meals go mobile
Thinking about getting a takeaway delivered to your dormitory? If you place the order by calling a restaurant by phone, you’re out of date. With the mobile Internet having become a norm of college life, start-ups are also building on it. Students are getting creative and working hard to take advantage of the digital age.Weibo ordersWang Ying, 19, wrote on her weibo account that she guarantees delivery within 30 minutes of placing an order via the micro blog. To her own surprise, her post was forwarded hundreds of times and she received five orders on the first day. The micro blog “Help You Buy” was launched by three female sophomores from the Wuhan Media and Communication College at Central China Normal University. The college is located on Canglong Island in Wuhan, where getting around is difficult for students.“Once, we wanted to eat McDonald’s in our dormitory, but the campus is located too far away from the city center. I thought other students might have the same problem, so we decided to help others buy the food they like,” says Wang.After a marketing course, the three girls launched a micro blog and started their business. The service charges 10 yuan for 25 to 60 yuan worth of food, and 15 yuan for 60 to 110 yuan worth of food. They only deliver dinner, because they all have classes to attend during the day. “We take a bus downtown after we finish class at 5:20 pm and come back before 7 pm,” says Wang.They’ve encountered a few problems on the way. One day it was raining heavily and the bus didn’t come for a long time.“To get the orders to our clients before 7 pm, I had to take a taxi. We made a loss that day, but it was necessary in order to save our reputation,” says Liu Ping, 19, Wang’s partner.“When we have made enough money, we plan to buy an electric bike,” says Liu.WeChat businessBesides micro blogs, WeChat is another platform that can be used for business. Three students at Guilin University of Electronic Technology launched an account on WeChat in May.“We collected all the information of restaurants located around the campus and released it on the account. Users can order a meal simply by following a few steps according to the system prompts,” says Qiu Lichao, 19, a sophomore majoring in electronic engineering.After a user chooses a meal and submits the order, the restaurant prepares it. With more than 2,000 orders coming in every day, Qiu set up a distribution team with about 30 students to help the restaurants deliver food, and of course to earn some money.“We plan to provide more services, including buying groceries and booking hotels. It will make life much more convenient for students,” says Qiu.
