Swimming way to success
What does it take to graduate from a university? Many may say all you have to do is take classes and pass the exams. Well, it requires more than it if you’re a student at Tsinghua University.Starting this September, freshmen at the university will have to take swimming courses. If they fail a swimming test at the beginning of their university course, they won’t receive their degree until they can pass the test successfully, according to an announcement by Tsinghua University president Qiu Yong.Exceptions will be allowed for students with certain physical or mental conditions, if proved by medical staff.Liu Bo, head of the Division of Sports Science and Physical Education, explained why the university is linking swimming ability with degrees.“As a requisite (必要的) survival skill, swimming is beneficial for students in the long run, since swimming is helpful in improving students’ endurance and does less harm to joints (关节) and muscles as a water sport,” he told China Daily.Viewing the ability to swim as a must for students is not something new to this university – it was also a requirement in the early 20th century. It was later dropped due to a rising number of students and a lack of facilities (设施). Besides Tsinghua University, Peking University and Xiamen University have also listed swimming as a compulsory course for students.However, the announcement has caused a heated debate.Some welcomed the new rule, saying it’s a necessary skill that can save lives.“Swimming is a fundamental (基本的) skill. [It’s] a way to stay healthy and is lifesaving in emergency situations. I believe making it mandatory (强制的) is necessary,” Yuan Jiaxiang, a junior in Tsinghua’s Department of Civil Engineering, told China Daily.However, some said it has nothing to do with getting a degree.“It’s not reasonable (合理的) to require people to be able to swim for them to graduate,” Zheng Xiaoyu, a high school student from the Middle School Affiliated to Northern Jiaotong University, told China Daily. “For a lot of people who grew up in inland cities, learning how to swim as an adult will be difficult.”In fact, Chinese universities are not the only education organizations that encourage their students to swim. A few colleges in the United States – including Cornell, Columbia and MIT – offer swim classes to students. “Anything that prevents people from dying needlessly is a valuable skill,” Fred DeBruyn, director of aquatics (水上运动) at Cornell, told The New York Times.
