Twins lead the way
A pair of twins studying at Tsinghua University have stunned the online community after a video of one of the sister’s presenting her daily schedule during an oral exam for a top scholarship was posted online in October.The schedule shows that she plans her daily activities by the hour, dividing them into class arrangements, learning tasks, and social activities. A review of each day is also included. It seems that the twins sleep only an average of five hours a day.Ma Donghan and Ma Dongxin, 23, both postgraduates, have been dubbed the “Tsinghua twin sister xueba (study overlords)” on Renren, a popular Chinese social networking service website for students. The post about them has received tens of thousands of views.“Someone called me ‘a study god’, but I think it refers to people with great talent who can get good scores with little effort,” said Ma Donghan, a doctoral candidate at the Department of Precision Instruments and Mechanology.“Study overlord is more appropriate because it means that you work hard with a clear purpose. You have to manage your life well.”Ma Donghan, who had the top average grades in her class at school for three consecutive years and scored over 95 in many subjects, said that she first began to make a daily study schedule during the second semester at university.She found it hard to adapt to university life and faced difficulties she had not expected. She was at a loss over mechanical graphing, calculus, and other courses. “I felt I had too many things to do, and that I couldn’t do everything well,” she said.So Ma Donghan learned how to manage time from her sister and designed a detailed schedule for herself. Besides listing her assignments every day, she also wrote down her state of mind after completing them.“I’m a person who likes to get things done. People who make such detailed plans are often obsessive, but sometimes they succeed more easily,” she said.The twin sisters won Tsinghua University’s special scholarship in 2011, which is awarded to only five students a year. Ma Donghan recalled that she explained her schedule during the oral exam to demonstrate her learning method. “I didn’t expect it would cause such a stir,” she said.Lots of schools and departments invited Ma Donghan to talk about her learning experience. But after several talks she realized that what she can do for others is limited. “You need to rely on yourself,” she said.The twin sisters both decided to stay at Tsinghua University to pursue their PhD degrees. Some consider them to be pedantic, but they don’t mind. “Everyone has different values. Some prefer a relaxed life, but I enjoy hard work,” Ma Donghan said. “I’m happy.”
