Plays bring real-life benefits
Dong Yaocong is trembling and on the verge of breaking into tears. The 21-year-old communications engineering major at Beijing Jiaotong University has never felt so torn. He is about to blow up the bridge he helped design to stop the enemy soldiers.Of course, this is not reality, but a scene in the play Mao Yisheng. As a member of his university’s drama group, Dong was playing the role of Mao. Acting allows him to experience others’ lives, which in turn enriches his own.Interested in acting, Dong joined the drama group in his freshman year. He has played several roles, but Mao Yisheng is his favorite.“Growing up in peacetime, I have no concrete understanding of patriotism,” he says. Playing the role of Mao and making sense of the character allows him to experience what it is like making a contribution to the country.“Mao devoted his whole life to building bridges, yet he destroyed his own work,” Dong says. “Such spirit is what we lack. Today’s youths are too self-centered to consider our country’s interests.”While Dong has gotten a real taste of patriotism, Zhang Liufeng has realized the importance of reflection through acting. The 20-year-old finance major at Chongqing Technology and Business University played the role of Li Zhengguo in Love Letter.It tells the story of Li Zhengguo and Chen Shufeng, who grow up together and exchange letters for four decades. Chen is deeply in love with Li throughout this time, but Li only realizes his love for Chen in his old age.“Li takes an entire lifetime to think about whether Chen is his true love,” Zhang says. “Thinking about ourselves, I realized we’re always busy worrying about our future – practical things like what job we should do. But seldom do we reflect on the moment we are living in.”By portraying Li Zhengguo and living his life, Zhang learned that constant reflection on the present should be part of his life. “After all, what we think and do now will ultimately have an impact on the future,” he says. “Making sense of the present helps us in making decisions that are true to ourselves.”Caring for our own life is easy. But what about the lives of others? Yangchen Xiuyi’s experience of being part of the campus drama group taught her to understand others. The 20-year-old is a music major at Beijing Normal University. Her most memorable acting experience is of her freshman year, when she played the role of Suzon in 8 Women.Suzon is a beautiful and clever girl, who has a love affair with her father. Though the man finally turns out not to be Suzon’s biological father, she struggles with the affair throughout the play.“After making sense of the character, I found that Suzon’s relationship with her father is a result of her unhappy childhood,” Yangchen says. This made her believe that many people misbehave for a reason and desire a second chance.“We shouldn’t judge others for the mistakes they make. We can have many lives on stage, but only one life in reality. Life is too precious to let it be destroyed by one mistake,” she says.
