A student’s best friends
Dogs and cats are best friends for many people, but not for students who live in a tiny dormitory room. Just think about the noise, the smell and all that reckless behavior ― chewing on whatever they can get their teeth on, or knocking over the trash can and scattering the contents all over the floor.But don’t fret. There are smaller and less destructive pets to brighten up your dormitory life, just make sure you’re allowed to keep one.Betta fishOriginally from Southeast Asia, betta fish were introduced to aquariums in the early 1900s. They make great pets with their big personality and stunning colors, ranging from vibrant bright red, dark blue to lemon yellow.Unlike many fish, most bettas react to their owner’s presence and become more active when they are nearby, which is unusual in the fish world.Bettas can be your best friend for up to four years as long as you take good care of them. Although part of their appeal is that they can be kept in a small container without complicated filtration systems, taking care of betta fish does require some effort.Care tips■ Bettas, especially males, are not supposed to be kept together, as they will fight each other to the death. That’s why the fish is also called the “Siamese fighting fish”.■ A betta’s stomach is about the size of its eyeball, so take care not to feed your fish too much. They love bloodworms as food, but are also happy with pellets.■ Keep the water relatively warm. Bettas are happiest at temperatures between 20 and 30 degrees.■ Make sure the water is clean by changing part of it on a regular basis.ChinchillasOdorless, about the size of a rabbit and with fur so dense that they can’t get pests such as fleas, the friendly creature originally from the Andes Mountains in South America makes an ideal indoor pet. Chinchillas are very social animals, so if you only have one, you will become its family.Care tips■ Chinchillas are vegetarian.■ They prefer regular feeding times, and a consistent routine for handling and exercise outside of the cage. Some get stressed by changes to their routine.■ Warm temperatures are more of a concern for chinchillas than cool temperatures, so care must be taken that they are not exposed to excessive heat. Symptoms of a heatstroke include flushed red ears, lethargy and a lack of appetite.Land hermit crabsIn a society where owners are often asked “Are they tasty?”, land hermit crabs are among the most unlucky animals commonly kept as pets. But they are easy to care for, inexpensive and fascinating to watch. And the fact that they don’t smell or cause any allergic reactions makes them perfect for college dormitories.Care tips■ Land hermit crabs can be kept in a plastic tank covered by a secure plastic mesh lid. A proper home should include a moist sponge, a small dish with drinking water and enough sand so that the crab can fully cover itself with it.■ Hermit crabs aren’t really crabs. They have a small, soft abdomen that they protect by living in empty shells. They need larger shells as they grow, so you should provide progressively larger ones for them.■ It’s best to keep more than one land hermit crab as they can get lonely and die if alone.■ They eat almost everything you eat.Red-eared slidersIf you’re interested in a lifelong friend, a red-eared slider makes a wonderful pet. If well cared for, they can live for around 40 years.But before you decide to get a turtle, there are a couple of things you should know. Red-eared sliders can get big. Don’t be fooled by those tiny, cute hatchlings – they can grow to an adult size of up to 30 cm! And you should never release it into the wild, even if you get tired of it, because the exotic species can damage local ecosystems.Care tips■ Red-eared sliders are aquatic turtles that need clear water to survive. The water depth should be up to the turtle’s shell.■ Don’t use bleach or soap to clean the tank ― residue from these products can kill your turtle.■ Red-eared sliders are not particularly friendly animals. You shouldn’t take them out of their tank for fun and bonding.■ After handling a turtle or any of its accessories, always wash your hands in hot, soapy water to prevent the spread of salmonella and other bacteria.
