Parents drive students crazy
XU Yang just can’t seem to shake loose from his mother. The 20-year-old freshman at China University of Political Sciences and Law was about to take a spring trip with his classmates when, all of the sudden, she showed up for a visit."I really wanted to go, but it was my mom," Xu said. "I couldn’t just leave her alone."University life is supposed to be a season removed from parental nagging. But some students, like Xu, can’t convince their parents to give them a little space. As a result, on phone calls and surprise visits, tempers can flare and feelings can get hurt.Xu’s decision to spend time with his mother couldn’t have turned out any worse. The law major spent most of the weekend arguing with her over how she should express her love for him without interfering with his campus life. "[Going out with my friends] wasn’t just about having fun-it was an opportunity to bond with classmates," Xu said. "I felt I was being left out from the group." As for his mother, he says he knows she loves him, but he wishes she would treat him like an adult, rather than like a "primary school kid".Xu is not alone. Zhou Minmin, a 19-year-old business major at Wuhan University, is the apple of her parents’ eye. They’re always watching her.Everyday, she gets a call from home checking for news or signs of trouble in her daily life. As a freshman, she loved the calls. As a sophomore, she has begun to tire of them. "Each time I pick up the phone, I answer pretty much the same questions from my parents," Zhou said.Once, her phone rang when she was making a presentation. The singing phone forced her to walk off the platform and turn it off. Afterward, she returned her mother’s call, screaming at her for messing up her train of thought. ’We can’t help’Over time, parents like those of Xu and Zhou begin to realize that their constant contact is unwelcome. But they say that sometimes they just can’t help it."For the last 20 years we have managed everything in their life," said Zhou Baosheng, Minmin’s father. "Now, they are in a whole new city on their own. We have to make sure that they are OK." Not being able to reach their kids sometimes makes them feel uneasy. And Zhou said his wife worries that her daughter is "drifting apart" from them. "We know that someday they will fly on their own," he said. "But we always tell ourselves that now’s not the time."Talk it throughExperts like Li Zhigao, a psychologist at a Beijing-based consultation center, suggest that students and parents talk through the issue. "Students have to convince their parents that they are capable of keeping themselves safe and sound," Li said.At the same time, parents should be open to changing the way they express their care. "Rather than asking what their kids had for lunch," Li said, "parents could ask them about their plans for their next break. In the end, it’s about having an interactive conversation, rather than a Q&A."As for Xu Yang, he eventually apologized to his mother. But he also asked her to inform him in advance the next time she wants to make a visit so that he can be "better prepared" to show her around the city.Since their argument, she has stopped calling so often. Recently, when Xu had not heard from her in several days, he began feeling a little concerned. "So I called home, which made both them and me happy."
