Effort required to close gap
Chen Chen, 22, had her graduation farewell dinner weeks ago. But the law graduate of Shandong University still remembers the embarrassing moment when she proposed a toast to her professor and he couldn’t remember her name.“I immediately blushed,” Chen says. “I wasn’t close to my professor, but I didn’t expect our relation to be so tenuous.”Different from teacher-student relations at high school, professor-student relations in college are not so close. According to a recent survey of 2,230 students and 270 professors by Beijing Normal University, 32 percent of students rarely communicate directly with their professors.Professors believe students should take the initiative in tackling this problem.Emotional bondZhang Tingting, 19, a Chinese language and literature major at Jinan University, is sitting in the staff office watching a Korean soap opera with her professor. They’ve been good friends since Zhang’s freshman year, when she went through a bad breakup.“I was alone in the classroom and crying when my professor saw me. She comforted me and straightening me out,” Zhang says. After that, they talked about their personal lives and discovered their shared interest in Korean dramas.“That made her amicable and accessible to me,” Zhang says. She now visits her professor’s office on a monthly basis to discuss her academic problems and future plans. Zhang is glad that she had the opportunity to form a close relation with her professor.Pragmatic approachApproaching professors requires a proper reason and good manners. Li Hongyan, professor of communication at China Agricultural University, checks her phone for new messages after every class. One day, she received several WeChat messages, one of which said: “Professor Li, I want to study abroad. Could you please increase my score to meet the foreign university’s requirements?” Li sighed - this was the last message she wanted to receive.Li has been using WeChat to facilitate communication with her students. “Those who are afraid to talk face to face with professors can always find me on WeChat,” she says. In recent years, however, she has noticed that students are becoming increasingly pragmatic.It’s common for today’s young people to focus on their personal interests, according to Li. “But when students expect tangible benefits from us, there’s not much we can do,” she says.Chen Yongmei, associate professor of Japanese at Beijing Forestry University, believes such students are not representative of the mainstream. Whether students approach professors largely depends on their personality.“Some of them are very outgoing and more than willing to share their thoughts with us. But if they’re not, we don’t force them to,” she says.Another factor that affects professor-student relations is the professors’ way of teaching. Chen says she teaches both a compulsory and a selective course. In the selective course she tends to deliver classes in a more entertaining way, using cartoons and funny videos.“Students in this course are more willing to communicate with me than students in the compulsory course,” she says.
