Apple enters new market
Apple has entered the textbook market. The tech giant introduced iBooks textbooks a couple of weeks ago when it announced its iBooks 2 platform.They are digital books in a variety of subjects from astronomy to zoology taking in science, maths, history and geography.Apple developed its iPad-based textbooks in conjunction with major textbook publishers. The company offers a collection of textbooks for high school students.Apple claims it offers a “new textbook experience” and suggests its interactive iBooks textbooks are “the next chapter in learning”.It sounds like good news for pupils and students. Think of it. No more carrying heavy backpacks full of textbooks. Every textbook you require can be stored on your iPad.No more having to buy expensive textbooks which you will only use for a year or two and then sell or give away.Of course there’s a catch. You need to own an iPad and as you know, it is not cheap. You also need to buy digital textbooks, mostly priced each at $14.99 (94.74 yuan) or less.Textbook publishing was worth $8.7 billion in the US alone last year. Will digital books take over completely in education?Is learning going to evolve into something we do on an electronic tablet computer? You can appreciate the attractions.Instead of boring old textbooks which are quickly out of date you can have an interactive learning experience.You can play videos, examine geometrical problems in 3D, listen to music and commentary, make notes and mark passages electronically. You can also share stuff on social networking sites with fellow students.The book is dead; long live the tablet computer.But wait a minute. Not so fast. Let’s consider the evolution of learning. Thousands of years before books, man was depicting hunting scenes on the walls of caves.As early as 2700 BC Egyptians were converting papyrus into thick forms of paper or parchment ready to receive markings from reed pens.In the Middle Ages in Europe monasteries became centers of learning. While some monks ploughed and grew crops, brother monks laboriously copied and illustrated bibles by hand on vellum or parchment.China developed printing, using signs cut into wooden blocks. Books were printed rather than written out by hand. Every candidate for the civil service boned up on Confucius’ precepts in printed form.In 1273 a handbook for Chinese farmers and growers of raw silk was printed, according to Geoffrey Blainey, writer of A Very Short History of the World. Soon 3,000 copies were in circulation, at a time when the same task would have called for a year’s labor by a monastery full of Italian monks writing out the books by hand.The great leap forward in learning came thanks to the printing press. Johannes Gutenberg of Mainz in Germany was perhaps the first European to print a book using not only a printing press but also metallic type.His techniques were copied and adapted. Thanks to the printing press, cheap books were possible.And the rest, as they say, is history. Will Apple revolutionize learning? That remains to be seen.
