Meager earnings cost today’s interns
After a long period of hesitation, Gao Jing finally calls her father. “Dad, can you send some money to me? I have to pay my rent.”When this 22-year-old majoring in Chinese language and literature at Nankai University interned with a video website in Beijing, she found her income was too small to cover her expenses.In fact, more than 30 percent of students have trouble covering their expenses during summer internships and other programs, according to a survey conducted by renren.com last month.College students are struggling to deal with this tough reality in their own way. What they appreciate more are working experiences and self-improvement.Broken pictureWith a monthly internship earnings reaching more than 2,000 yuan, Gao Jing thought she could make a living on her own in Beijing.But 1,2000 yuan went to her rent, ruining her plan. Additionally, she’s required to pay rent three months at a time, and she had to submit a one-month security deposit. “I don’t earn any money, but I have so many expenses,” she says.Gao must also continue attending her classes in Tianjin, meaning she has to pay at least 500 yuan per month in transportation fees.To save money, she orders take-out, costing her 20 yuan every day.While she technically paid to participate in the internship, she feels what she gained wasn’t worth it. Her job was to select and edit videos. “It wasn’t challenging. I wanted to conduct interviews and write news,” she said.She originally planned to look for a job after completing the internship in Beijing, but now she’s decided to return to Tianjin. “After all, I’ll feel less stress and I’ll be able to find another company I can learn more from,” she said.Expensive tasteCompared to Gao, Li Meijuan, 21, a drama, film and literature student at the China Institute of Industrial Relations, seems to have had more luck. Li still lives in her dormitory, meaning her rent is under control.But as an intern with an international publishing group, her monthly income is just 1,000 yuan, which covers only her food expenses.Working in the Beijing central business district, she spends 50 to 60 yuan each day on breakfast and lunch. “The restaurants in the area are all expensive,” she says.To save money, she tries to eat dinner at school, and sometimes she *skips the meal altogether.She feels the experience is worth it. Working in the new media department, she’s learned how to do fashion marketing across a variety of platforms. “This job is interesting,” she says. “It will help me apply for a business masters degree abroad.”Experience countsIt’s better to care more about your experiences than your income according to Huang Ruoshan, a career development consultant at zhaopin.com. “It is unrealistic to expect high earnings from an internship, as up until now, there have been no specific rules on how to *compensate interns,” she says. “The company hires students to do *supplemental work. Also, students don’t have a diploma or working experience.”When choosing internships, she says students should consider their major interests and the cost. “Making a budget and changing wasteful spending habits are effective ways to strike a balance between income and expenses,” she adds.
