Petty rules are so annoying
Dragging his feet, Ray Huang left home for the new semester. He has to get up before 7:10 and go for a run before classes begin. He also has to stay in the classroom for self-study from 6:30 to 8:30 pm. These are strict school rules, which he must obey.“These school rules are like high school rules. But I’m a college student now, a grown-up!” complained the 20-year-old freshman in pharmaceutical chemistry at Zhejiang Pharmaceutical College. He doesn’t want to give his real name. Like Huang, many college students are upset by petty school regulations which seem to govern every area of their lives: slippers must not be worn in the classroom; boys and girls cannot hug or kiss in public. “Most college students nowadays have no siblings. Their parents demand that universities regulate more strictly both their studies and their general behavior,” said Liu Dan, deputy director of the counseling center of Tsinghua Univeristy. However, freedom-loving young students resent being restricted by rules, especially those that are “outdated” in their eyes. For example, slippers used to be worn only around the home. But now, many young people view them as a fashion item. “School officials should notice the change and avoid interfering too much in students’ personal life choices when they set school rules,” said Ye Yudeng, deputy director of City College of Wenzhou University. He’s worried that the more rules the school sets, the more rebellious the students would be. Liu, however, disagreed with Ye. She emphasized that college leads directly into the workplace. “Young people tend to attract attention by novelty, but they must learn to adapt to the mainstream social code during college years,” said Liu. As an example, she justified the rule about slippers: Wearing slippers is unacceptable in most workplaces. Therefore, according to Liu, such “petty” school rules are still necessary even though students may resent them. However, Guo Wei, 22, a senior in financial management at Henan University, isn’t happy that universities simply blame “rebellious” students for breaking campus rules. Guo feels that, sometimes, students break rules because schools don’t offer solutions to their problems. For example, students at Guo’s school understand that they are barred from using water boilers in the dorm because the boilers are a serious fire hazard. “But it’s tough to walk a long way to fetch hot water from the public water room in freezing winters,” Guo complained. “We won’t disobey the rule if the school can provide hot water boilers in our dorm buildings!”
