Snow sculptures come alive
It is 20 degrees below zero and the wind is bitingly cold. But Wang Haiqiang, an 18-year-old environmental design major from Harbin Huade University, seems unaware of the harsh conditions as he steps back and cocks his head to one side. He studies the gigantic snow sculpture for a while and then goes back to polishing his work of art.Wang is a devotee of snow sculptures. Similar to him, there are many other students in Heilongjiang province who take advantage of the cold weather and turn nature’s material into stunning pieces of art. Below they introduce you to this traditional art.Freezing artFor students from South China, zero degrees is already harsh enough, not to mention working outside when the temperature is 20 degrees below zero. But Wang Haiqiang feels quite comfortable in the cold weather. “My hometown is in the Greater Hinggan Mountains, where temperatures drop to 40 or even 50 degrees below zero,” he says.He loves the freezing art because “snow sculpting is a form of art that is unlike any other,” he says. “Drawing is the art of ‘plus’ - adding layers to a paper. But snow sculpting is the art of ‘minus’ – we are given an snow cube and remove layers from it to turn it into a meaningful shape.”Lively artTian Peng is Wang’s upperclassman. The 21-year-old has been snow sculpting for three years, ever since he first learned how to do it in an ice and snow sculpting class. “I was fascinated by the huge yet lively artworks,” he says.He can still remember vividly the first snow sculpture he made. “It was a sculpture depicting a warm family scene: a father coming home from work and his son and dog running toward him with big smiles on their faces,” he says.Although the sculpture was 3 meters tall, Tian says the overjoyed emotions almost made the sculpture come alive.Practice in competitionsWang Haitao, Tian Peng and two other students formed a team and participated in the first snow sculpting competition for college students in Heilongjiang province. Their work “Book of Life” won first place because of its deep meaning and strong visual effect. However, what most people don’t know is that they get most of their experience by joining competitions.“For each competition, our students spend three to four days on making an snow sculpture. During the process they not only practice their sculpting skills, but also learn from other contestants,” says Li Xinze, the team’s tutor and the associate dean of the art and communication department of Harbin Huade University.“Besides, it has changed our students’ tradition of maodong (northeastern dialect for staying inside in cold winters),” says Li. “Carrying on traditions while changing bad habits - what a meaningful form of art.”
