College students, living the good life
A record high of 690,923 international students came to American colleges and universities last year, according to a recent report from the Institute of International Education. And who wouldn’t want to do so when student life seems a little easier these days? for better or worse?The first hurdle used to be at the start of freshman year, when students faced having to live with an assigned roommate with whom they may have had nothing in common.Tolerating annoying habits, differing political views and radical mood swings can teach lessons that help in the real world. But for a narcissistic and highly curated generation, the goal is perfect harmony. Universities are contracting with matchmaking companies, where students fill out a questionnaire then receive a list of compatible freshmen.But some believe the process delays growing up. "Very quickly, college students are able to form self-selected cliques where their views are reinforced," Dalton Conley, a sociology professor at New York University, told The Times.Still not comfortable? A growing number of colleges like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology let students bring pets. "It’s harder and harder for students to leave home," a president claims. "Bringing this particular piece of home with them may make that separation easier."Colleges acknowledge that these tactics are also ways to differentiate themselves in a competitive market for top students.It’s also a competitive job market, and to make students look more attractive, some schools are inflating grades. In the last two years, at least 10 law schools have changed their grading systems to make them more lenient, reported The Times. Harvard and Stanford recently switched to a pass/fail system.You can also find access to free-for-all resources. Harvard, Yale and Stanford now offer a large portion of their courses online. In Britain, Open University even has its own YouTube channel. The very idea of a university has become unbundled, do-it-yourself and perhaps peerless -if not a little pampered.
