‘Eat-up’ campaign a hit
At East China University of Science and Technology, students who finish their food in the campus canteen get a coupon when they return their tray. Students can collect coupons and exchange them for small gifts, such as books, magazines, mobile phone covers and hand warmers.“It’s been such a surprise,” said Liang Zhaoyun, 19, a sophomore majoring in biology at the university in Shanghai. “It’s given us one more motivation to finish our food.”The move is part of a national campaign organized by students to tackle food waste on campuses.Why only on campuses, you might ask? Because according to a report by Xinhua News Agency, students waste twice as much food as the national average.The awareness campaign on campus food waste is gaining momentum across the country. Shanghai Youth League Committee and Shanghai Student Association launched the initiative in Shanghai.“The aim of the campaign is not only to encourage students to finish their food. We hope it can also motivate students to choose a more environment-friendly and healthy lifestyle,” said Tao Siliang, secretary of the Youth League Committee at Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine.But some canteen food is poorly prepared, meaning that students are reluctant to finish it all. Some schools have taken note of this.Wang Guangji, vice-president of China Pharmaceutical University, has lunch in the campus canteen nearly every day to keep an eye on the food quality.“The dishes in our canteen are all right, generally speaking. But of course it’s difficult to cater for all tastes. Most students are the only child in their family, so some of them are spoilt and aren’t used to some of the dishes,” said Wang.Other universities also pay attention to the quantity of food. At Nanjing University, rice is divided into three different-sized bowls that students can choose from according to their appetite.“I like to try different dishes at each meal. Before I had to throw away a lot of food because the portions were too big. But now the canteen offers half portions. It’s great because I can try different dishes at half price and don’t waste so much food,” said Fan Peng, 18, a freshman majoring in English at Nanjing University.So what if you really can’t finish all your food? At Changchun Normal University the canteen provides a take-away service. “If you can’t finish all your food, you can get a box to take the leftovers home. Even if you feed the cat, it’s not wasted,” said Zhou Zeyong, 19, a sophomore majoring in environmental science.“I’m glad that we’ve reduced waste since attending the campus ‘eat-up’ meeting. But if we call on students to waste less food, we should also improve the service and meal quality in campus canteens. Otherwise you can’t blame students for throwing away inferior food,” said Wang.
