Students learn to look ahead at driving schools
During the summer vacation, some students choose to climb mountains, some volunteer, and some think learning how to drive a car is a vital skill for their future. But with tough weather conditions, tough driving instructors and even tougher requirements for getting a license, students not only learn a skill but also a lesson for life.Endurance testZhang Li, 19, a sophomore majoring in botany at Yunnan University, nearly lost confidence when he learned to drive at a local driving school.“The driving instructor easily got angry about my performance. A lot of students want to learn how to drive in the summer vacation and let’s face it, we make a lot of rookie mistakes, which really gets on their nerves,” says Zhang.But the constant criticism made Zhang feel bad about himself, as if he was too stupid to learn how to drive. Through his parents’ advice, however, he started seeing it as an endurance test.“It will be important to keep calm at all times when driving on public roads in the future, so I think it’s a good preparation,” says Zhang.Vital checksWei Ruolin, 22, a senior majoring in law at Sun Yat-sen University, was one of the many students at the driving school this summer waiting patiently for her lesson to begin. But when Wei finally got behind the wheel next to the instructor, she almost caused an accident.“I forgot to check the position of the rear- and side-view mirrors before I started driving. I couldn’t see anything on both sides as the mirrors were folded in. I tried to adjust them while driving, but I nearly lost control of the car as I was distracted. It was very dangerous,” Wei says.When you get into the driving seat, don’t hurry to start the engine, but check everything and make any necessary adjustments before moving off.Difficult rulesHuang Shunlin, 22, a senior majoring in management at Central China Normal University, failed the test for traffic rules three times, even though the majority of the test is based on common sense. But then Huang thought of how many points he would lose on his driving license and the money he would be fined if he kept violating the traffic rules and didn’t learn them well.“I didn’t pay much attention to the test at first and failed it several times,” says Huang. “When I finally treated it like a real test and prepared with my friend’s help, it was easy and I learned many things to keep me safe on the road.”
