Winners hail from diverse backgrounds
You may think that English speaking competitions are dominated by English majors, and that students from other majors don’t stand a chance of winning. But this year’s China Daily “21st Century Coca-Cola Cup” National English Speaking Competition provided strong evidence to the contrary.The competition drew to an end on March 20 at Beijing Foreign Studies University. None of the top three contestants were English majors. The grand champion, Zhu Xue, is a medical student from Shanghai Jiao Tong University. And the first and second runners-up – Cai Yao from Beijing Foreign Studies University and Li Zehan from The Chinese University of Hong Kong – are both law students.Chen Mengzhu from New York University Shanghai won the fourth place and will be heading to London in May to compete in the International Public Speaking Competition on behalf of China. And guess what? Chen is not an English major either. She is a science student, majoring in interactive media art.Their advantages may lie in the unique qualities and experiences that come with their majors. For example, Zhu managed to keep a cool head throughout the competition, a skill probably honed in her training as a medical student. She was even calm after she won the championship.“I see this stage more as a sharing platform like TED, instead of a competition,” Zhu said. “Just like sharing medical knowledge can save people’s lives, if what I said today on the stage has provoked even a little thinking among the audience, I would consider my speech meaningful.”Qu Weiguo, a Fudan University professor and one of the competition’s judges, believes it’s no surprise that students like Zhu surged ahead. “English majors may be superior at their language skills, but they may lack the knowledge from other fields to support their speech and enrich their arguments,” he said.Hosted by China Daily since 1996, the “21st Century” English speaking competition has become a leading brand for students and English teaching experts in China.This year marks the 21st competition, a particularly special year for a newspaper named “21st Century”. The final round of speeches attracted a lot of authorities and experts to the audience, including Zhu Ling, publisher and editor in-chief of China Daily; Wang Guoqing, spokesman for the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference; Wu Jianmin, China’s former ambassador to France; Tang Wensheng, executive vice-president of the Translators Association of China and interpreter to the late Mao Zedong; Zhang Daliang, head of the higher education department under the Ministry of Education; and Qu Yingpu, deputy editor-in-chief of China Daily.Throughout the past 20 years, contestants at the competition have transitioned from focusing solely on language skills to placing more emphasis on the content of the speeches.As Tang said in her speech after the competition, language is a means of communication. “Whether or not that communication is successful depends largely on how you present your case –what you say, how you say it, whether you are convincing and whether you make a mark in the listener’s mind,” she said.
