Student talk show tango
While most students were busy shopping on Nov 11, Hou Yinguo, 25, a Chinese language and literature graduate student at Nanjing University, was working on Friends, his talk show.“There are a bunch of talk shows available online, but I wanted to make one that caters specifically to students,” he said.Hou is not alone. Many students are attempting to create talk shows on campus, hoping to tell their stories and enrich campus culture. Unlike other programs, talk shows require careful preparation well in advance in order to have interesting and engaging content. Shows often encounter great difficulties in their journey to create something original.Priorities firstFinding suitable guests and topics is Hou’s top priority when it comes to Friends.“We want to talk about human issues that truly have an impact on students’ lives,” he said.As the first episode was produced around Singles Day, the topic of discussion this time around was relationships. Hou and his colleagues invited Qi Lin, an associate professor at the Art Research Institute, to sit in as a guest.“Students consider him one of ‘the most handsome professors,’ so we expected him to attract a lot of viewers,” Hou pointed out.To keep things feeling natural on the set, Hou, who also hosts the show, doesn’t do a rehearsal with his guest. Rather, he simply gives the guest an outline of what he or she will be discussing. He and 10 others then spend a week recording the program.“The whole process is fun,” Hou said. “We enjoy doing something we really like.”When the video was uploaded on the website, it attracted hundreds of students.Like chemistryHowever, for Wang Xiaoya, 26, a graduate student majoring in journalism and communications at Tsinghua University, making a talk show is like doing an experiment. “Nothing really ever turned out how we expected it to,” he said.Before graduating, he made a talk show called Huixiao Tianxia with Liu Huining, 25, a Japanese major at Tsinghua University. The show’s aim was to tell stories that weren’t already known across campus.“I have been here for seven years, and I have encountered many students with inspirational stories worth sharing with the rest of the school,” Liu said.Both Liu and Wang also wanted to be broadcast television hosts, so they figured a talk show would be a great way to hone their skills before entering the job market.OverworkedIn the beginning, they did all the work — contacting guests, interviewing, recording and editing — on their own. “There was a lot of pressure. We once made three episodes in a week,” Liu said. But later, to ensure the quality, they agreed to produce only one episode each week.They often went to the Student Activity Center to find interesting students.Before recording, either Wang or Liu talks with their guest for an hour to break the ice and learn about them. After this is complete, they decide on an angle and prepare talking points.“If both of us did a pre-interview, the guests wouldn’t tell us anything new,” Wang said.During recording, Liu is responsible for coming up with questions tailored to the flow of the conversation. Wang, on the other hand, focused on what the guest is saying to control the rhythm of the interview.Many times, they’re up until midnight preparing and producing the show, but they enjoy it all nonetheless. “Making a breakthrough isn’t easy, but I’m up to the challenge,” Wang said.Their shows were welcomed by students on Renren.com and WeChat platform.
