Farewell customs changing
Liu Pengfei and his classmates earned a reputation for their frequent class dinners, but at their class farewell party only 12 of the 25 graduating seniors showed up."Everyone seemed really busy," said the 23-year-old Liu, an e-commerce major at Huazhong University of Science and Technology. "I think many began getting more aloof as graduation approached."In fact, Liu’s classmates were not the only students to ignore the traditional farewell dinner. This event used to be an important turning point, marking the end of the college years. Now, a growing number of students are abandoning the tradition - for reasons big and small.Shen Qing, an economics major at Beijing Union University, failed two civil service exams and many interviews during the last six months. The 24-year-old recently got an internship working for a state-owned company in Jinan. To avoid losing this opportunity, she decided not to request a two-day leave to attend her class’s farewell dinner in Beijing."I know it’s a tradition - it’s the moment at the end of your university life," said Shen. "But I surrendered to job pressure; I had to secure my job. Plus, I am really not in the mood since I have to deal with the mess of living alone in a strange place."Hubei University of Technology design major Zhu Zhe had a similar excuse. She and three classmates were sitting for interviews in Shanghai. "It is very sad actually," said Zhu. "I know something is missing if you don’t have a farewell party."The economic crunch deserves much of the blame for the demise of the farewell parties, but there are other reasons.Zhou Ying, an English major at Beijing Jiaotong University, says that class ties just aren’t as strong as they used to be."I am not familiar with most of my classmates anyway," said the 23-year-old. Zhou said people’s busy schedules kept them from developing close personal friendships. He made most of his friends while playing football or hanging out in a bar - not in the classroom.Liu Xinliang, a consultant at a Guangzhou-based counseling center, understands the excuses given by Shen Qing and Zhou Ying. But he says they’ll regret passing up their chance to say goodbye to their classmates. Farewell dinners, after all, serve a function: They help students to bring the "university" chapter of their lives to a tidy - and sometimes emotional - ending. "When you see everyone around you, you learn to accept the fact that ’this is it’. That’s why so many students get a bit emotional during the very last dinner," said Liu. "It is mentally healthy to release such emotions."In fact, the farewell dinner that Liu Pengfei turned up for was a success for this very reason, even though half the class didn’t show."Like magic, everyone around the table gradually became perfect in my eyes," said Liu.He even reconciled with a classmate with whom he had had trouble several years ago. And for the first time in four years, he cried.
