Drawings inspire dreams
Nong Luhuan had a wild dream when he was little: He wanted to become a cartoonist and publish books of his own. Now, the 22-year-old art design major at Sichuan Fine Art Institute has achieved his dream. His micro blog cartoon has more than 260,000 followers and he will publish his first book this week.Work of dedicationNong’s micro blog cartoon first drew wide attention in late 2012. Under the pseudonym Jin Sili, he draws stories of real-life people striving to achieve their life goals.One story is about a middle-aged cleaner who used to have a decent job in Guangdong with a salary of 6,000 yuan a month. But he quit to work in Beijing for only 1,000 yuan per month. This way he could audit at the Central Conservatory of Music and realize his dream of becoming a composer.Another widely reposted story is about an accounting student who is determined to become a flight attendant. The 21-year-old man has spent a whole year learning etiquette, emergency medical aid and the Civil Aviation Act to achieve his goal.Though each story consists of only several pictures, it takes Nong a lot of effort to finish them.“I want my work to be recognizable. I want people to think of me as a cartoonist who makes cheerful works,” Nong says. Therefore he digs deep into each person’s story. For instance, before drawing, he spends a whole day researching the person’s background and another three days on interviews.“Micro blog cartoons are not interesting because of the drawings. We attract viewers with the content,” Nong says. “Besides, viewers only spend one or two minutes on each micro blog post. If my work can trigger reflection, then it is meaningful.”Influential mindOn the way to success, Nong had his struggles. He even thought about giving up drawing in 2011. But when he read the micro blog cartoons of Chen Anni, a well-known female cartoonist of Nong’s age, he found new courage. “She is not even a fine art student and she is pursuing her dream of drawing cartoons. Why should I give up?” Nong says.After that, Nong worked even harder, gradually becoming popular and receiving positive feedback.Many fans have sent Nong private messages, telling him that his work has encouraged them to pursue their life goals and that if they succeed they will share their stories with him.“I’m glad that I persisted and have conveyed a positive attitude through my work. My readers are motivated through it and are themselves becoming a source of motivation for others,” he says.
