Serious sport for thinkers
While many students are hot on playing computer games or exercising outside, Wang Chen, 20, prefers sitting quietly in an empty classroom with his peers. The only sound is when a playing piece is moved on the wooden board. They are playing weiqi, called “Go” in English.Compared with the busy sports ground, it seems a bit dull, but Wang and his peers enjoy an intense brain workout.Wang, a junior majoring in economic news at Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, is an amateur seventh-degree master player – the highest degree amateur players can attain.This July, he won the International University WEICHI Tournament 2013 in Shanghai, which saw competitors from 54 universities around the world, including Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.“I was familiar with my opponent and we were equally matched, but I was still surprised about the result. I had hopes to win first place, but when it came true, I couldn’t believe it,” says Wang.Giving upWang began studying weiqi when he was 7 years old. “I was a quiet boy and my parents thought weiqi would help develop my logical thinking ability,” he says.He began to attend the Chinese Rank Promotion from the age of 10. Thousands of children take part in it every year, but only the top 20 are accepted to become professional players. It was a great source of pressure for Wang.“I failed for nine years, and then I gave up. I entered university and became an amateur player,” says Wang.Another pathThe tempo of playing weiqi on campus was slow, which gave Wang more time to explore his skills.Wang now sees playing weiqi as a hobby. He is the captain of the weiqi team on campus, which has five members. He organizes them to research the latest formations once a week.“Different trends and new styles emerge all the time and we discuss how to deal with them,” says Wang. “I really enjoy this pressure-free way of playing weiqi .”IndependenceWhat this hobby brings Wang is not only a sense of achievement, but also independence.He has won 10 national and international championships, which have brought the young student a handsome sum of money. When he won the national amateur competition in 2011, he received 100,000 yuan in prize money.With awards from contests, Wang covers his expenses and tuition fees all by himself.Lonely hobbyWang is busier than most of his peers. A look at his calendar shows that he had attend competitions in Guizhou and Taiwan at the end of August, after attending an international competition only this July. But Wang admits he has little in common with his classmates.“I feel a bit lonely sometimes,” he says. “Whenever I lose, there’s nobody with whom I can share the pain.”Wang says his next project is to promote weiqi among his peers on campus.“Many young people in China don’t understand this kind of sport and I want to promote it,” says Wang.
