So, whose money is it?
Shen Junyi’s online “shop” provides a stable income every month, even though it only has a single customer – her mother.The 19-year-old freshman at Shanghai University “sells” her monthly expenses online, exclusively to her parents of course, as a creative way of financing campus life in Shanghai.Managing budgets has long been a headache for freshmen, according to experts. Mostly supported by their family, college students find it challenging to deal with their finances and the surveillance of their patrons.The administration’s ban on college student credit cards has not kept Li Jianxing, a freshman at Shaanxi Normal University, from getting a supplementary card through his father’s credit account.Even so, the 18-year-old hates it. Every time Li swipes the card, his parents call to check what he purchased and, more annoyingly, why.“I feel like they’re spying on me,” says Li. “Plus, they can check my whereabouts simply through short messages from the bank.”At least there is some good news for Li: He has not yet exceeded his monthly budget of 2,000 yuan since becoming a college student, whereas many of his peers are struggling with financial crises from overspending.According to Zhu Hanyu, from the general management office of Xinjiang Agricultural University, it is quite common for students to lose control of their finances on campus.“Before college, everything is taken care of by parents and family,” said Zhu. “Now, without an appreciation for budget control, they are running out of money before they even know it.”This is why Zhu thinks parental control over their offspring’s budget is necessary.Gao Min from the student affairs office of Shenzhen University, however, disagrees. He said that learning to spend and save money is the most pressing lesson for freshmen to gain independence.“Experiencing the anxiety and pressure of bad financing is good for students to learn,” said Gao. “Students have been controlled for too long.”Some students say that parental control actually causes them more pressure on campus.Qu Xingxin’s parents request an accounting record of daily expenditures from their son every month. The 19-year-old freshman at Jinan University says it takes a lot of time and energy to record every trivial purchase.“I understand that my parents worked hard to support my studies, but I feel that I am still a high school student who has to report everything back to my parents.”Gao suggests that consistency and communication would help both freshmen and parents.“Students need to show parents that they can keep on top of a budget by restraining their spending habits,” said Gao. “But parents need to let go, even if they know their child will experience problems.”As for Shen’s online shop: She has adapted to college life for the time being and her parents are happy to see that the “monthly expense” price tag is falling.“My mother said taking control of money is my first step into adulthood,” said Shen.
