Freshmen get oriented
“Before making vital decisions, they need to know about the school and their   majors.”Li Shuman, 19, can recall little about the *freshman orientation she received a year ago. It was a two-day package of lectures. Hundreds of students gathered in the *auditorium and got sleepy when teachers *preached school regulations to them.When Li went for her first class at Zhengzhou University, she was lost on the huge campus. The school had been too busy explaining rules and regulations to tell students where the classrooms, library and canteen were.In the first few weeks, Li had to get up early in order to find her way to various teaching facilities. She didn’t discover the sightseeing bus service for a year.Li said: “Freshmen are going to study and live in a new place for four years. They are uneasy about the unknown.”It would be caring of the school to offer students useful tips, such as how to look after money and make full use of the library.However, the primary concern of freshman orientation is to give students a soft-landing when they make the *transition from high school kids to college students.It’s time to make their own choices in terms of what to learn and how to learn, according to Li Danqing. Li is the head of the Institute of Higher Education at China Jiliang University.Li said: “Students are responsible for their own choices. Before making vital decisions, they need to know about the school and their majors.”But students may get very “limited information through orientation”, according to Li.In a China Youth Daily poll in August, 76.2 percent of the 1,899 respondents urged universities to be more open to the public and offer adequate information.When freshmen cannot get an *informative orientation from the school, they turn to schoolmates. In college BBS and on social networking websites such as renren.com, freshmen bombard upperclassmen with all kinds of questions. They also *devour articles and videos giving advice on college life.However, students still prefer *authoritative answers. They need objective, detailed information about optional courses and potential job prospects if they choose a particular major.Besides, sometimes freshmen may be met with cold shoulders when they try to approach upperclassmen. Li Shuman has had such an experience. “Not every senior is kind and patient enough to deal with freshmen’s ‘silly’ questions,” said Li.Students like Li may also worry that bits of advice from upperclassmen may be “*biased”.Li Yuteng, 24, was free from such worries when he enrolled at Michigan Technological University in the US. The university frequently hosts meetings between senior students and freshmen.Also, many American universities publish *alumni contact information on career center websites. The alumni on the list are ready to help freshmen.Yale University’s *promotional video made for freshmen, “That’s Why I Chose Yale”, has gone viral among Chinese students. They are *envious when they see that Yale’s Master and Dean live in a residential college and eat with Yale students.They offer students advice on almost all matters – study, job-hunts, extracurricular activities and even health issues.In contrast, some Australian universities seem to be “*indifferent” to freshmen.Cheng Zhangkai, 21, is studying applied science at Sydney University. There are no required courses for the students of Cheng’s major. They have to select their courses by themselves starting from freshman year.Introductions to courses are usually brief. So Cheng had to do a lot of research in the library and on Google to find out about the courses and the teachers.But Cheng doesn’t think it a good idea for students to be *mollycoddled by the school.He said: “We shouldn’t blame the school. We are grown-ups and we can explore college life by ourselves. That’s how we can truly learn to be self-reliant.”
