Making a living from girl stuff
A YEAR and a half ago, like most men in the world, Li Wanyuan went dizzy whenever anyone talked about girls’ cosmetics. Now he’s making a living from them. Li got his first job after graduating in 2007 as a salesman for a Shandong company. He quit the job about half a year later when he saw that it wouldn’t give him room to develop. He was attracted by the idea of Internet selling, and decided to set up his own online shop, with the idea of developing it into a regional shopping site later. "Girls are obsessed with being beautiful and they’ll never stop trying, so the cosmetics business will obviously go far," Li explained. Li opened his "University Graduate’s Online Shop" on March 19, 2008, on Taobao.com. He did not stock any goods at first and only provided photos and descriptions of the goods available. Every day, he took a bus to get the cosmetics people ordered that day. For the first half month, he sold his goods at a loss to increase sales and credit. New sellers don’t have a credit record at all, and buyers tended to trust those with a good record. He gradually figured out which products sold and which didn’t so his next move was to spend 600 yuan on the popular ones. To establish a good customer base, he opened a VIP service -anyone who bought anything became a VIP member. That qualified them for a 2 percent discount on their next purchase. In addition, he often enclosed free samples with any order, in the hope that people would try the product after trying the sample. For the first two months, he earned nothing at all but his credit and reputation were looking better. By the third month, Li made about 1,000 to 1,500 yuan.However, the loose capital was becoming a problem that trouble him just as it did other online sellers. The rule of online transactions is that a seller does not get paid until the customer gets the goods. Deliveries took about a week, meaning that there was a week delay in the payment process. To keep his business running, Li had to cut the purchase cost. One solution he used was his credit card that allowed him a 5,000-yuan overdraft. Li has also spent 1,000 to 1,500 yuan a month on Taobao’s advertising service. This "direct link" allows a seller to link its products to a keyword search. When customers search for a specific word that the seller has a link to, the seller’s products will appear on a list of recommendations. That service, Li says, contributes at least 50 percent to his volume of transactions. He made about 5,000 yuan, the last month of 2008. His gross income for this past February was 8,000 yuan, so Li plans to do more to stock goods. Here are some suggestions for anyone looking at starting an online shop:1. Make sure there’s a ready market before you start stocking your goods. Take at least a month to study the market.2．A good reputation is everything for an online seller. As a newcomer with no credit record, you may have to sacrifice profits to boost your score. 3．A VIP membership is one good way to form a bond with customers and help you establish a good customer base. 4．Keep up with the times so that you always know what the most popular goods are.
