Master the art of preparation
With national benchmark scores for postgraduate admission having been released late last month, scores for each graduate school will soon follow. Applicants who did well in exams will face the ultimate challenge of impressing an academic panel to get enrolled on a master’s degree.“The purpose of the interview is to get to know applicants beyond their paper application. It’s a chance for applicants to distinguish themselves from the other applicants and show the interviewers what makes them a better candidate,” said Wei Yuquan, the postgraduate dean at Sichuan University.For students looking to further their study after graduation, tips offered by experts and students for the interview also serve as a guideline for their studies.Wu Wentao, 24, a postgraduate majoring in software engineering at Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications“In preparing for the interview it’s important to consider your audience – professors with expertise in different areas. So it’s vital that you read their research papers, books, and other academic work to learn about their interests and fields of study. With this knowledge you can impress the assessors and give the right answers and, more importantly, ask the right questions.Different schools have a different style of interviewing candidates. This is where online forums for postgraduate study can help. On these forums, students share their experience of being interviewed by a particular professor, some recommend must-read pieces, and some even describe the interviewer’s interest in a particular research area.Finally, make a list of your own strengths, achievements, and any recognitions you’ve received. Memorize the list and try to use examples from it to answer questions related to these traits confidently.”Cui Shangbin, professor in basic mathematics at Sun Yat-sen University“Even if it’s an academic interview, I have to remind students that basic interview etiquette is indispensable. Arrive at the interview location 15 minutes before it begins. Dress appropriately – look neat and professional, which means no jeans, T-shirts or shorts.Bring copies of your resume and any papers or presentations you’ve worked on.You probably won’t be able to explain them all in the time available, but it shows you prepared well for the interview.Address the professors on the panel with their names and titles to show that you’ve done some background research.”Wang Di, professor of law at China University of Political Science and Law“Students should know the program they are applying for very well. This means you need to be able to express your argument fluently when asked why you want to study that degree. How you support your arguments indicates the logic thinking and articulation skills required by the faculty.Many students pay a lot of attention to the defensive side of the interview – which is answering questions. But successful candidates distinguish themselves by asking the right questions, too. It shows they know the research field well. A good question will also ignite the professors’ interest in the subject and in you immediately. So make sure you do your homework before attending the interview.”
