Chinese student's diary of despair 
November 2006"At school, I had a scholarship but now my family has to pay for me to study. I have to pay them back and I have to give money to my brother so he can build a house. My goal is to study hard, get a good job and provide for my family. If I cannot do that, then it is impossible to say that I have a good life."September 2007 "It is not tragic that I was born in a poor family in the countryside. The tragic thing will be if I cannot get out of the countryside. I am sure I can become a city resident after my studies.""I used to complain that God was not fair to me to let me be born into a poor farmer’s family, but now I will not think that way. My background can make me stronger and more mature."May 2008"I cannot believe it is so difficult to find a part-time job; there were 200 students applying for one part-time job as a receptionist. I cannot imagine what will happen when I graduate."June 2008"Today I attended a job fair. There were 10 times more students than there were companies. After pushing through the crowds, I finally got the chance to speak to a human resources manager. But all he was looking for were sales and promotion staff, which isn’t suitable for me at all. I came home feeling very stressed."September 2, 2008"My pride is too strong. I care too much about myself. I chose to go to college instead of becoming a migrant worker, but now my family have huge debts and I can do nothing for them. If I was working, I could send money home and bring gifts for my parents like the other children in the village. I have spent lots of money and not even learned anything useful that will get me a job. Now, I regret my choice to study."October 9, 2008"I am a college student but I cannot find a job. How ashamed will I be when I have to go back to the village after I graduate? I feel so tired, I want to keep sleeping and never wake up. What shall I do? Who can save me? Apart from my parents, I will not miss anything in this world."October 18, 2008 (final diary entry)"Why so difficult?" 
