Master’s degree still key to success?
To Ji Xiaoyu, taking the national graduate school entrance examination was a natural part of his college plan.“Obtaining a master’s degree will give me a better chance at getting a decent job,” said the 22-year-old graduate of Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. He took the exam last year.But now, it’s no longer such a “natural” choice for many students. With employment benefits fading, students are thinking carefully about whether they should take the exam.A total of 1.72 million students took this year’s national graduate school examination, according to the Ministry of Education. That’s 40,000 less than last year. For the first time in five years, the exam saw a drop in the number of applicants.Wang Wei, senior lecturer of Kuakao Education, a training agency, thinks that a major reason for the decline is the dim career prospects for postgraduates.“Many students are now taking master’s degree courses as a shortcut to a better job,” said Wang. “But recent employment data may disappoint them.”The employment rate of postgraduates in China in 2011 was 87 percent, 8 percent less than that of undergraduates, according to the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security.Given this situation, experts are calling on students to think clearly about what they want a master’s degree for.Chen Lu, 23, is graduating this year from Tianjin University of Finance and Economics. She says taking the exam will enable her to pursue her real passion.The logistics major has signed up for a master’s degree in journalism at Renmin University.Many other people are like her. According to MyCOS Research Institute, 28 percent of test takers in the 2012 national graduate school entrance examination applied for a major different from their bachelor’s degree.In deciding whether to take the exam or not, students are recommended to make the decision based on the nature of their major.“For majors that focus more on theory, students should enroll in a master’s degree immediately after graduation as it’s important for them to keep up to date on the latest theoretical developments,” said Zhang Xiangkun, associate researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. These majors include mathematics, physics, philosophy and linguistics.“But for majors that feature practical skills, getting familiar with relevant workplace skills as soon as possible and getting to know your own strengths and weaknesses is more urgent.”Computer science, telecommunication engineering and mechanics majors are of this kind.
