UN delegates in training
In a room filled with some 100 delegates, Rom Molyka, a 22-year-old student from the Royal University of Phnom Penh, Cambodia, stood in front of the podium and introduced herself as the Cambodian delegate to the United Nations.“Today our delegation is here to discuss one of the most aggravating issues in the world. It is a great concern to our people, and we are sure that it is a great concern to the entire world as well–women’s rights,” she said.But Molyka wasn’t at the UN headquarters in New York. Instead, she was participating in the annual Beijing Model United Nations last weekend at China Foreign Affairs University.The event is based on a concept that originated at American universities during the 1950s, not long after the establishment of the real United Nations in 1945. The Model United Nations (MUN) allows students to role-play as UN delegates, so that they can gain insight into the workings of the UN and the dynamics of international relations.The first MUN club in China was established by Peking University in 2000. Similar clubs quickly appeared in other Chinese universities. According to an estimate by Nisen MUN, a company dedicated to building the MUN program in China, there are already about 145 MUN clubs at Chinese universities.The immersive educational experience MUN offers attracts students like Wang Jing, a 21-year-old member of the MUN club at Southeast University. “When you represent certain nations at MUN conferences, you learn about those countries in depth–their history, political systems, cultures, issues, motivations and more,” she said.For Wang, taking part in MUN conferences also helps her to improve her language and public speaking skills. “After all, you have to speak in front of other ‘delegates’ using one of the official UN languages,” she said.Other students, like Molyka, are drawn to the opportunity to mingle with peers from different regions and countries. Molyka, in particular, came to this year’s Beijing Model United Nations to better understand her Chinese peers’ views on global issues. “There aren’t many universities in Cambodia that have MUN clubs. Young Cambodians are not familiar with how the UN works and how global issues are solved,” she said.MUN has garnered its share of criticism, in part because it often does not reach less affluent campuses in places like Cambodia. Some critics have labeled MUN “a rich kids’ game”, an activity reserved for the elite.But Hu Linhui, marketing director of Nisen MUN, thinks the criticism is far from true. He points to the increasing number of MUN clubs in western China as evidence to the contrary. “There might have been a gap, but the gap is closing,” he said.
