Home love guides new business
A 21-year-old recently bought an apartment right after his graduation. More importantly, he bought it with money he earned all by himself.Liu Dun, a finance major at Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, has started up an Internet company and made a fortune.But doing business is not as important to Liu as doing what he is passionate about, which is promoting the city he lives in.Born in Wuhan, Hubei province, Liu has a strong connection to the city. He loves the people there, who are straightforward, which leads many to believe they are rude. He loves the city because of its diversity. He wants to imitate Ma Yun, CEO of Alibaba, who set up a business in his beloved hometown.Man with a planIn his first two years of college, Liu already started preparing for his start-up business. He did internships in Internationale Nederlanden Group, a Fortune Global 500 company, trying to learn from these industry leaders. “Though the cost was high – several thousand yuan for registration – the experience was very rewarding,” he says.Liu was able to take a close look at these companies, their structure, and how their employees cooperate with each other. Most importantly, his hard work caught his boss’s attention, who later wrote a recommendation letter for Liu and introduced him to entrepreneurs and investors.In his senior year, Liu thought he was finally ready and decided to launch a business doing what he loves and is good at. “I love recreation and I know a thing or two about the Internet. I wanted to promote Wuhan’s recreation industry through the Internet,” he says.Early successHe set his eyes on young people who want to have fun in Wuhan, yet know little about the city. Together with his team, Liu used his spare time to visit unique stores; those that had the right characteristics were enlisted as partners. “We recommend these stores to our registered costumers on WeChat, who can get special treatment or discounts in these stores. It’s a win-win situation,” says Liu.Now, Liu has partnerships with more than 100 stores in Wuhan, ranging from restaurants to boutique stores. A Shenzhen investor believes Liu’s company is worth 5 million yuan and wants to purchase a 20 percent share for 1 million yuan.“I’m still thinking,” says Liu. “This company is like my own child. I want it to have a good parent in law.”
