Hands-on experience is important
Zhang Yi, a senior editor at online video portal Letv.com discovered that some of his graduate interns lacked any idea of how important it is to do the most basic chores well.“For instance, one graphic design intern likes to stress her flair in creativity, but she doesn’t actually know how to crop a picture properly,” he said.College grads’ lack of hands-on experience is causing a “two-way dilemma” in the job market this year.Major media including ifeng.com report that employers are finding it increasingly difficult to recruit qualified candidates for their openings.Meanwhile many grads are experiencing hardship landing job offers due to their “poor problem-solving abilities.”Wang Jian, a senior consultant from 51job.com said that the situation has arisen due to a mismatch between the employers’ expectations and those of grads. “Employers wish to have job-ready recruits with the right set of basic skills, but students often tend to look at positions that are beyond their current ability range.”Wu Qingmei, an HR manager from the Tianjin Branch of China Urban Construction Design & Research Institute, was surprised that she couldn’t find many grads who can draw good paper sketches. Some candidates made mistakes in street names or put wrong distances on maps.“Drawing sketches is the basic drill of future engineers. But few of the grads have the skills or patience to do that now,” she said. “Instead, they all wanted to do creative jobs such as holistic design plans for a city project. They didn’t realize it will take three to five years to reach that level.”As graduation season approaches, she has only found one or two qualified candidates who want to do the “most basic work” for nearly 10 vacancies. The ratio is like 1 to 5.Consultant Wang points out that newbies’ reluctance to do ground-level work is because they wrongly project their place in the workforce.“With over 6 million students graduating each year, college should no longer be considered an ‘elite education’,” he said. “Most have to get in at the lowest level and work their way up.”Liu Chuan, 22, a senior English major from the University of Technology and Science Beijing, has adjusted well to his role.He used to think that doing foreign trade equals closing lucrative deals with clients.“I learnt in my internship, most of the time the work is just related to checking hundreds of detailed items on a single contract, and doing abstract calculations of trade figures,” he said.He recalled a manager from a PR firm asking if he could bear spending months “sending e-mails” to clients or media practitioners.“I told myself why not?” he said, “The work would build up my contacts and interpersonal skills, and would be useful.”Wang suggests grads change their mindset. “Ground-floor work is not a burden, but an asset to your career, which will prove to be invaluable for your future.”
