Exploring the civil service
This has been dubbed the best year for recent graduates to take the national civil service examination. There are more vacancies and less eligibility requirements than in the previous years. However, during the first few days of registration, the number of applicants was still lower than during the same period last year.As civil service jobs lose some of their glamour, graduates have become more reluctant to choose this career path.Since 2014, the number of people registering for the civil service exam has dropped. A 2014 China Youth Daily research poll shows that one of the reasons is the government’s anti-corruption campaign.Public servants face the stereotype that they “work in a leisurely manner” with opportunities to earn “gray income”. But Huang Ruoshan, senior career consultant of Zhaopin.com, painted a different picture.“The reality is that civil servants’ workload is heavy, especially at the grassroots level. Worse still, some ‘special benefits’ were cut,” said Huang.Without these special benefits, the salary for a civil service job is not competitive. A survey conducted by the Beijing Municipal Commission of the China Communist Youth League reveals that young civil servants in Beijing earn on average 4,530 yuan each month. The average salary for other Beijingers during the same period was more than 6,463 yuan, according to Beijing Municipal Human Resources and Social Security Bureau.Bai Zhili, the associate dean for Peking University’s School of Government, also attributes the decline of civil servants to the job’s negative public image.“When a lot of people say being a civil servant is not a sensible choice, since it offers no money and no future, graduates can easily lose faith in their career path,” he told thepaper.cn.It’s true that most civil servants face a tough career path, with few chances for promotion. According to Chinese law, it takes at least eight years for a grassroots-level civil servant to get promoted.Despite all the disadvantages of being a civil servant, Zheng Fang, a senior student at Hainan University, still chose to take this year’s civil service exam.“For me, a civil service job should be an ordinary career, just as it is now. It should not be bestowed special benefits,” he said.His idea is echoed by other young people too. A China Youth Daily research poll shows that 53.6 percent of young people think the main purpose of civil servants is to better serve the public.But that doesn’t mean civil service jobs do not help employees at all. What Zhang values about working as a civil servant is also the platform it offers. Employees learn to better understand society, by working for the central Party and its administrative organs or their affiliated organizations.“You get to know the policies and how the government works. Besides, this job will allow me to nurture my communication, management and coordination skills. These skills are useful in other jobs too,” he said.
