Not afraid to seek help
WHEN finals week rolls around every semester, students line up in the wee hours of the morning to get a seat in the library. They leave books to occupy desks in classrooms. They keep their dorm room lamps burning all night long.Now you can add another habit to this list - seeing the psychiatrist. Students have always suffered from anxiety, fatigue, fear, panic and stress brought on by end-of-semester exams. But they’ve been afraid to seek help from psychologists. Now campus professionals say they’re starting to see their appointment books fill up.According to a Xinhua report, the consultation center at Shanxi University of Finance and Economics has seen the number of students seeking help double this winter. That appears to be a growing trend on campuses all over China.Qiu Lili, a 19-year-old freshman biology major at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, recently decided to seek help from a consultant. Worry over her exams had given her insomnia. This, in turn, left her feeling weak and open to panic attacks. She’d even become less sociable around friends. "I just couldn’t concentrate on anything," recalled Qiu. Since a scholarship decision hung in the balance, she decided to schedule a consultation visit to save her grade. She worried she’d be prescribed medicine, or be put under hypnosis. So she was relieved to find the experience far more pleasant - and helpful - than she’d imagined.Common problems"The consultant helped me to see that I just care too much about the exams, and that, as a rookie, I’m just not experienced enough with them," Qiu said. "Now I believe that if I get an average score I’ll have no problem passing all my [subjects]."Lin Bin, Qiu’s consultant at the university, says he is seeing more students than ever before. Freshman fears, like Qiu’s, grow out of their unfamiliarity with the exam process. Veterans, Lin adds, often face different problems.Ding Yong, a 21-year-old junior in law at China University of Political Science and Law (CUPL). He always tries to cram as much information into his brain as possible during exam week. He pulls all-nighters and skips meals.Ding found that this year, something strange happened: He began getting irritated at the littlest things. So he decided to seek help from a psychologist.Chen Jing, a consultant at the CUPL psychological consultation office, warns that intense study over short periods of time can lead to an immune system malfunction, or to a psychological disorder."Students need to know that poor physical fitness makes one more vulnerable psychologically," Chen said. "So they should keep a reasonable tempo in study."Ding says it may be too late for him to take Chen’s advice this semester, but he plans on following it in the spring.Growing familiarityCampus consultants are pleased with students’ increasing desire to address their psychological struggles. They see it as a sign of progress."The younger generation sees this as only one means to keep themselves healthy," says Lin. Qiu, for instance, introduced two friends to Lin, encouraging them to deal with their problems in a "scientific way".Others, of course, are still wary of the way people could label them if word gets out that they’re seeing a psychiatrist. Ding still tiptoes in and out of the consultant’s office, for fear someone he knows will see him. "I don’t want others to think that I’m a freak," he explains.
