This is my generation
Giddens Ko (pseudonym Jiubadao), the writer of You Are the Apple of My Eye, describes youth like being caught in a downpour ― “It makes you ill, but people still long to experience it again.”With the box office success of So Young, directed by Zhao Wei, people are once again turning their nostalgic eyes to youth ― an era of passion and pain, of hope and heartbreak. The reason why youth is such a soft spot for many people is that its intangible nature cannot be truly grasped until it is lost.Intangible qualityZhang Yiwu, professor of Chinese literature at Peking University, distinguishes youth from adolescence. Youth is more of a mental concept, according to Zhang. It is a phase, usually from the age of 12 to 30, when teenagers and young people prepare themselves for society.“It is the period between education and employment, between dependence and independence,” says Zhang.But Jiang Chunling (pseudonym Xinyiwu), the writer of So Young, looks at youth from a different angle: “It’s a time when one can afford to do the wrong things ― there is still time for everything.”Jiang says youth shares many similarities with home. When you leave home, you start missing it.“I think youth is meaningless for young people. Only when you look back does it acquire a special meaning,” she says.Generational traitsWhy is youth such an alluring topic across different generations? Zhang Yiwu links it to people’s nostalgia and China’s transforming economy and society in the 1990s. The innocence 30- to 40-year-olds inherited from the planned economy was shattered by the market economy.“In the rapid change, their sentiments faded away,” Zhang says.For Zhang Yueran, 31, who is regarded as one of the country’s most promising young novelists, “chivalrousness, or heroism in youth” was the hallmark of people born in the 1970s, but it was brushed away by the materialism prevalent in today’s world.Nostalgia for the post-1980s and post–1990s generation, according to Zhang Yiwu, comes from their frustration and anxiety. Born into the most affluent society in 100 years, this generation of single children is not as tough as their predecessors.“They have very high expectations toward life and their disappointment and frustration with reality is huge,” says Zhang. “So they turn to the past for comfort, even though they are still young.”Universal appealAlthough the nature of nostalgia differs from generation to generation, Jiang says there are universal elements that trigger feelings of nostalgia.“Everyone experiences youth and every generation considers their youth to have been special. But actually, most people’s memory of youth is the same ― it’s a journey from innocence to maturity, from impulsiveness to composure. And this journey is often marked by pain ― the emotion that leaves the deepest imprint,” says Jiang.Zhang Yiwu agrees: “We chose to become what we are today. One chooses one thing over another and people always think ‘there could have been a better way’. So they look back, sigh and smile.”
