Timeline for success
College freshmen have four years ahead in which they can prepare for their future careers. But where to start? Well, we suggest freshers “think from the future”. In other words, you should plan your college life based on what you hope to do after graduation. Usually, the three hottest options for graduates are to study abroad, go to domestic graduate school or land a job. We consulted upperclassmen and supervisors, and drew the following timetable:Domestic graduate schoolsYear 1:LibraryIt’s too early yet to decide upon your specific grad school major. However, comprehensive research may help you to narrow down your choices.Year 2:Prepare for your English testDeveloping English skills requires persistence. It’s a good idea to prepare for your English test as early as possible, so that you will have more time later for major-related tests and the politics test.Year 3:Browse school websites for your reading listGo to the website of your target grad school to find the reading list to prepare for the major-related tests. It also gives you a rough idea how difficult your exams will be, so that you can adjust your school or major choice,’Orientation’ in advanceTry to sit in on related classes at your target school. This will enable you to become familiar with your potential professors and also have an insight into the key parts of your target course(s).Year 4:Test preparation trainingTest preparation classes during the summer vacation before year four will help you to assess where you may need to do more revision. Week-long classes during the National Day holiday will help you to consolidate the key knowledge points.Study abroadYear 1:GPA Overseas grad schools ask for applicants’ cumulative grade point average (GPA) based on their entire four years of study. Without a good academic performance in Year 1, your GPA may suffer.Year 2:Extracurricular activitiesExperiences like volunteering, internships and research projects make your personal statement and resumer stand out.GRE/GMAT US graduate schools require a GRE/GMAT score, which is valid for five years. Try in Year 2 (June or October).Year 3:Language testsUS schools require a TOEFL score, while UK ones require an IELTS (国际英文水平测试，即“雅思”) score, both valid for two years. Sit the tests in Year 3.School and major choicesRefer to The Times (for UK schools) and US News and World Report (for US schools) to see school and major rankings.Year 4:Application timelineUK schools: October 2013 to March 2014. US schools: October to December 2013, December 2013 to February 2014.
