Winter work search
It may be too cold to venture outside, but that doesn’t mean you need to put your job-hunting plans on ice. You can explore new job opportunities from the comfort of your own home by just clicking your mouse on your computer or cell phone. Here 21st Century interviews career experts to help you track down updated job opportunities and learn new job-hunting skills from job websites and social network services (SNS). Job websitesNotices advertising new job vacancies flood into job websites every day. In order to quickly locate the information most relevant to you, remember to customize your job search engine entries. 1. Set “Publication Date” as “in the past two weeks”, so that the job vacancies displayed are currently available. Remember, the earlier you send your resume, the more likely it is to get read. 2. Don’t set restrictions on “salary” because many employers will advertise it as “negotiable”. But do specify your salary expectations in your CV, so you won’t waste time going to interviews with employers who can’t, or won’t meet your demands. 3. Specify your target vacancy to get accurate search results. For example, “marketing” can be further divided into “advertising” and “PR”. BBSThose who received job offers before the holiday now might be free and glad to write about their job-hunting experiences. They may also post advice on how to prepare for written tests and job interviews. For instance, during the winter holiday, Hiall.com.cn will collect tips from its forum members who have secured a job, and post them in its “Highly Recommended (重磅推荐)” section. In the same section, students can also find information about campus recruitment for the upcoming spring semester. Companies which are planning to recruit during the spring semester generally begin publishing relevant information the first week after the Spring Festival. So be sure to keep an eye on all of the job websites. HRs also share their comments and experiences online. For example, 51job.com’s BBS has a section called “HR Club”, where all the members’ identities are verified by website administrators. SNS websitesThe website launched “Renren Recruitment Platform” in March 2010. To date, 577 companies have joined the platform. Students can stay informed of job opportunities by subscribing to the individual companies’ pages. If you don’t have any particular preference in terms of companies, go to the platform’s homepage to view the latest job opportunities. Micro blogThe rapid spread of information on micro blogs has inspired companies to publish recruitment information there. The function of searching for people according to “tags” on micro blogs is quite useful. You can set the tag as “HR” or the industry and the company you are interested in. Some CEOs, HRs, or employees may publish job opportunities on their micro blogs. 
