Sea of knowledge
She was awakened at 9 am by the alarm clock beside her bed and scrambled out of bed to head for her desk. She turned her computer on and began the day’s online lesson.Shi Liu’s a 22-year-old senior in accounting at Beijing Forestry University. She’s been taking the online course for two months. Shi wants to take the Certified Public Accountant exam next year and chose this course to prepare. Why? “It’s different from the traditional course,” she said. “You need to control your time and discipline yourself very well. But it’s a convenient, efficient way to gain knowledge. And, it’s a new lifestyle for me.”According to a China Youth Daily survey of 12,000 young people last September, more than 81 percent spend their spare time on the Internet, and 22 percent want to get something.“It’s not only a way to gain knowledge to improve yourself, but also a way to slow down your pace of life,” explained Zhou Yunqing, a Wuhan University sociologist. “You have a wider platform from which to learn, with more freedom to decide when and what to learn.”Compared with the traditional classroom, it seems a shortcut to knowledge. “I attended real life classes, but soon found it difficult to continue,” said Shi. “I had to get up at 7 am every weekend, wait for a bus in the cold, and spend over an hour on the bus and subway. I became extremely tired after one month, and I was always sitting in the classroom with dark circles under my eyes and messy hair.”After turning to the Internet for help, she found that learning could be relaxed and enjoyable. “I can arrange my study time freely. I can sit in my cozy chair in my pajamas, drinking a cup of juice, and watch the video,” Shi added.Is that disciplined enough? According to Zhou Zhi, 23, a Beijing music teacher who studied Japanese cooking online for a year, being relaxed does not necessarily mean inefficient: “It was a fruitful course.” In a real class, the teacher might waste time talking nonsense, Zhou says, but in the online learning materials, the teachers focus on the contents.Not only that, you can also stop and replay the clips you don’t understand at any time.“I always practice the cooking after watching a video. When I’m confused, I just stop it and look for more information on the Internet,” said Zhou. “It helps me to see things clearly.”Unlike the traditional courses, this is not necessarily a continuous process. “Students can get a lot from a video of a lecture given by a great teacher. It’s a sea of knowledge and it removes the time and space limit,” Zhou explained.“I like to watch videos of lectures on history,” said Luo Jingqing, 21, a junior at China Agricultural University. “Our university has no history classes. Now the Internet is helping me. Every video tells a wonderful story about history.”Still, online learning is by no means perfect. True, there is a sea of materials on the Internet and some are useful, but some might lead you in the wrong direction, cautions Zhou. “You need to be cautious in selecting a course. It’s better to ask for help from seniors, or see the comments of netizens who have taken the course,” Zhou said.
