Intern programs can put students at risk
CHINESE colleges have begun organizing summer-vacation internship programs that provide paying jobs for undergraduates. While such programs can equip students with valuable work experience, they also come with potential risks.Last week, a student intern reportedly committed suicide at Chimei Innolux Company in Foshan, a branch company of Hon Hai Precision Industry, which also owns Foxconn. The 18-year-old, surnamed Liu, was a student at Shijiazhuang Oriental Technology Polytechnic School. He had been working under a school-company program as a summer-vacation intern for only two days.  "We usually consider it a good thing for schools to organize part-time work for students during summer vacation," said Zheng Xiao, a human resources consultant at ChinaHR. "Through these programs, employers can save costs, schools can gain a reputation for being able to guarantee internship opportunities for students, and students get pay and experience." Diao Lan, 19, a freshman tourism major at Liuzhou Rongshui Polytechnic, says he’s pleased with his school’s summer work program. "The school help us bargain with the company and win us benefits, like free meals and dorms," said Diao, a summer intern at an electronics company in Dongguan. "The school hires buses to send us directly to the company, and I have a strong sense of security since I am with classmates and teachers."Out of schools’ handsBut every school-company program is different, and some of them are not that reliable. Zheng warns that some schools are not able to control how much their students are paid and worked, and how secure they feel at the company facilities. For example, to meet order deadlines, many companies require staff to work overtime. Du Yue, a 20-year-old accounting major at Shantou Polytechnic, part-timed at a toy company in Chenghai, Guangdong with other 94 students last summer."We signed a very simple agreement with the school, promising that we would be on good behavior during the internship," said Du. "The school then arranged work for everyone on the production line - it didn’t matter what our major was." He was paid 2,000 yuan for his one-and-a-half months of work, but it left him feeling exhausted. "It was common to stay on the production line for 10 hours a day. The order had a deadline so tight that we took only one day off every two weeks," Du recalled. "And the company did not provide earplugs for the interns, so we had to bear the noise from the machines."Du and his classmates complained to their teachers, but the situation didn’t change. The contract between the school and the employer was ambiguous, so students couldn’t find a way to protect their rights.Strict termsEmployers, meanwhile, have their own concerns. "Student internship programs usually last less than two months. We don’t want to invest money in training them or providing insurance," said Zhou Weihua, director of the general manager’s office at Dongguan Yintong Glass Company. Many schools accept such strict terms because they don’t want to lose the opportunity to place hundreds of students in internships. There are also examples of shady dealings between schools and companies. "Last week, we found that an electronics company had given all the student wages to the teacher directly, and then the teacher paid the students," said Xie Guoping, director of the Xiegang township labor bureau in Dongguan. "Students didn’t see the detailed payroll."According to rules laid down by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, schools should get a permit from local education authorities before organizing part-time work for students. "Most schools involved in such partnerships don’t have the permit," said Xie. "In such cases, we have to send all the students back home."
