Future memories
About twenty years ago, Gao Xiaosong wrote the lyrics of the classic folk song My Old Classmate and touched millions of hearts. Now, as the producer of the new youth film of the same title, he is trying to do it again.Starring Zhou Dongyu, 22, and Lin Gengxin, 26, My Old Classmate follows the pair’s life and love from middle school, when they are tablemates, through high school, college and beyond their graduation.Of course, a youth film wouldn’t be complete without paying homage to the time period it covers.My Old Classmate certainly keeps that in mind. In the first half hour, audiences constantly encounter the symbolic items of the early 1990s, including pencil boxes and comic books.The film also mentions important events that took place during the period from 1993 to 2013, including China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the terrorist attacks against the US on Sept 11, 2001, and the 2002 SARS outbreak in China. This attention to detail brings back memories and creates nostalgia, especially among those born in the 1980s.Then there’s the main focus: the first love between Zhou and Lin’s characters. From secret crush, to courageous confession, to dating and lovers’ quarrels, the interaction between Zhou and Lin, who share a great onscreen chemistry, is fun to watch.But after seeing similar stories several times in other popular youth films, such as last year’s So Young, and 2011’s You’re the Apple of My Eye, it feels a bit cliched.In case you’re wondering, no, the film doesn’t have a fairy tale ending. It’s not inventive, but director Guo Fan’s way of storytelling is quite impressive. Throughout the film, he jumps between memories and reality, yet leaves the story complete and allows it to flow smoothly.Toward the end, Guo delivers the clear message that first love can easily fall apart when faced with reality. The fact that Guo presents this in a neat and tidy way may seem cruel, but it adds more authenticity and freshness to an already overused story.I can’t say My Old Classmate is profound and incisive, but it doesn’t have to be. If audiences can see a little bit of themselves in the film, it has fulfilled its goal. And those who are experiencing their sweet first love need not worry too much, because no matter how it ends, the precious memories of it will always stay.
