Little Star has a bright future
Members of Bibobox Studio didn’t expect a call from the Apple team.But that’s what happened after they created a series of squeaky animals including a penguin and giraffe for the iPad. “We tried to make the characters as lifelike, interactive and user-friendly as possible,” said Liu Bo, a teacher from Dalian Nationalities University, and the chief director of Bibobox. “Our team pays close attention to the tiniest details.”The group’s innovation and efforts captured the attention of Apple engineers.Bibobox’s 30-page interactive storybook Little Star won the student developer award at Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC), held June 11-15 in San Francisco, US.The team behind Little Star is made up of five students and two teachers from Liu’s university. They are all design or computer engineering majors.It’s the first time that a Chinese team has won a prize at the annual Apple Design Awards, since the awards began in 1996. According to Apple, the award is given to developers who match its own philosophy of good design, innovation and state-of-the-art hardware.“Our design philosophy is very simple. We want children to think outside the box to reach an answer,” Liu explained. “The point of our book is to provide children with methods and ideas for them to think creatively by themselves.”Little Star features a story of five friends on their journey to catch stars. After several failed attempts, they discover their shortcomings and weaknesses, and realize that the power of teamwork is the key to success.“In our process of creating the app, teamwork also proved to be crucial,” said Wang Kun, 22, a senior animation major who did the coloring.“It’s important for designers and engineers to work together and get their ideas across.” Wang said the team had a brainstorming session every week. At first, it was hard to communicate because they had different jargon and ideas.“We then spent time together,” Wang recalled. “As a result, engineers knew how to put our ideas into reality, and we designers understood how to respond to their needs.”The children are able to interact with the app in many ways, including touching to reveal different characters as well as using an accelerometer to shake the stars out of the sky.Besides the exquisite and flawless design, the language was important.Instead of Mandarin, Little Star was first launched in English. Then they added simplified Chinese and Cantonese versions.“We were thinking with a global mindset,” said Maggie Li, a tutor who was in charge of translating the script. “From the outset our book was aimed at children around the world, not just those in China. Kids think the same universally.”Bi Wenting, 23, a classmate of Wang, said they spent almost a year creating the storybook. They did research at primary schools in Dalian, to find out if children liked their plotlines and characters.Fluent English also helped the team promote itself at the conference. The representatives at the event exchanged ideas with fellow developers.“Apple looked interested in our project,” said Li. “We told them about our future plans, as well as Chinese app-developing and education-related markets.”Bibobox is working on a successor to Little Star, and a series of apps to teach Chinese characters’ etymology.“We students also learnt a lot from sessions with videos available in English on Apple’s website,” said Wang. “And I’ve tried to share them with everyone interested in app developing. ”Eric Jou contributed to the story
