Rich kid student just part of a trend
Accompanied by her parents, in a stretched Lincoln limousine, with 19 boxes of luggage, and 2 full-time tour guides, when Zhejiang "rich girl" Chen Shi (not her real name) arrived at a certain Wuhan college, other students were struck dumb in awe at the conspicuous wealth on display.What is more, her parents had requested that a private bathroom be built for their daughter. News about the girl, who people refer to as a "niu", spread like wildfire across the campus.Unfamiliar with Wuhan, and afraid of getting lost, they had hired the tour guides to help them find their way around the city, her parents said. The 19 boxes of luggage contained everything their daughter deemed necessary, including her many clothes, a recorder, toys, bedding etc. "We’ve brought all things she uses at home. She won’t use the bedding prepared by school."The school dorm there is a bit old. The four-person dorms do not have their own toilets, so students have to share a public toilet in the corridor. Chen’s parents found this impossible to and complained: "Living conditions here are intolerable!"According to a counselor, Chen’s is a wealthy background. It seems the girl has never experienced hardship in her life. Educated in a boarding school, her parents rented an apartment for her, meaning she never had to share anything with the school’s other pupils. Her parents once requested a private dorm for her, but the school turned them down, as did they a demand that she have her own toilet. The teacher told them: "I’ve never heard anything like this before."VoiceThe spoiled generations of the post-1990s.Chen is far from being the only student born to super-wealthy parents.Sophomore Lu Zengkai, told our reporter that transporting the luggage of one female student he knows of took required the services of 6 people."Some freshmen leave me speechless," says Mrs. Zhang, a counselor, who has seen many cases like these. "Some girls even bring dolls, guitars and their hi-fis, regardless of the amount of space in their dorm." Mrs. Zhang puts to the’ overindulgence of the parents, and says it is bad for their children’s development. Such students. she says, often experience mental problems later on. They cannot get used to college life and often find it difficult to make friends with other students.
