Students make a splash at APEC forum
Words like “thanks” and “please” have become pet phrases for Na Yuegang. As one of the volunteers at this year’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, he assists more than 100 international delegates all from the information desk of Beijing Hotel.But Na Yuegang is not alone. More than 600 volunteers from 13 universities in Beijing contribute to the APEC meeting, according to Beijing Daily.Students take advantage of opportunities to put their skills and interests to work at the forum, and in return they gain valuable work experience and connections.Language expertNa Yuegang is an international politics major at Beijing Language and Culture University, and he’s a language enthusiast. In addition to English, he speaks both Thai and Cantonese. He uses his talents to help determine where delegates are from based on their accents.He even gets to use his language skills to communicate with staffers. When he meets delegates from Thailand and Hong Kong, he greets them in their native tongue. “It helps them feel more at home,” he said.Through communicating with delegates, he’s developed a deeper understanding of his college major. “Although we learn about APEC meetings in our textbooks, we never really know what a meeting is like,” he says. “Here, I learn the meeting’s agenda, how the delegates work, and get a feel for the atmosphere of this international event.”In the future, he plans to earn a master’s degree in international politics. “This experience has made me more curious about the relationship between China and other nations,” he says “I want to study these relationships, if possible.”Spreading cultureXu Han, 21, an English major at Beijing University of Technology, is approaching the conference from a different angle. Her job is to introduce delegates to China’s technological innovations like 3D printing machines produced by technological company Tiertime. She is also in charge of showing off cultural relics like cloisonné metallurgy, and she does it all in English.Once a Thai delegate showed tremendous interest in the process behind a carved lacquerware technique, but Xu Han wasn’t familiar with the subject.Even so, she did a lot of preparation for the work. In only four days, she read more than 100 pages of notes. Her public speaking skills, which she honed in 21st Century National English Speaking Competition, helped her recall the information she’d learned quickly.She did her own research online as well. She originally knew very little about traditional Chinese artifacts, but through her own research she’s gained the ability to speak about the subject with confidence.She’s constantly on the lookout for opportunities to grow. “I still read about Chinese culture,” she says.Bridging the language gapExactly how delegates work during the APEC forum remains a mystery to most students. For Zuo Meng, 21, an international economics and trade student from the University of International Relations, the job is a chance to witness the forum firsthand.She volunteers in the APEC Secretariat helping delegates solve all sorts of logistical problems that arise during work, bridging communication between delegates and other staffers whose English isn’t quite perfect.The hardworking nature of the delegates and the forum’s friendly atmosphere has impressed her most. At 7 am, when she arrives in the office, the Secretary-General is already hard at work.“Based on the meeting recordings and transcripts, it seems that he’s always very careful in his work,” she says.“I respect their professionalism and optimistic outlook on life, and I plan to take what I’ve learned from them into the future,” she says.
