Saver the memory
Graduation season is in full swing. Amid the laughter and tears, goodbyes and nostalgia, another group of graduates will walk off their cozy campuses and into a new chapter of life. How best to celebrate this special moment? Check out this list of activities you’ve got to try before donning your cap and gown. Live it up, as you may never get a second chance to be crazy and stupid again!Shout out your loveStill hesitant about expressing your love? Well, it’s time to shout it out. Otherwise, you might never have the chance, especially if your crush moves away after graduation. Even if you are rejected, it can still be an unforgettable memory. Students have been known to make grandiose displays of affection, but this can bring unwanted attention to the person you have your eye on. So avoid making things too uncomfortable. Consider confessing your feelings over a farewell dinner, during graduation trip or at your graduation ceremony. You can even just walk around your school together with your crush and when the time is right, let it out.Take a graduation tripDearest graduates, give yourself a pat on the back and treat yourself with a getaway! You deserve it. To make lasting memories, remember to record your trip in every way you can. You can take photos and make a photo album, shoot a video, or share your adventures on social media. Play a game like Truth or Dare to pour out your feelings and clear up misunderstandings with your classmates. When choosing your destinations, consider most people’s wishes. Whether you’re revisiting places where you have precious memories or exploring new destinations, it’s worth a try.Wander at nightBefore you graduate, say goodbye to your classmates, to your teachers, and to the campus and city you live in, especially if you plan to move away. Trekking around on a hot summer day is not for the faint of heart. When the streetlights flicker on and the city goes quiet, grab a few beers and visit some of your favorite places with your friends. Or, you can explore new corners on campus or around the city. A trip down memory lane always ignites heartfelt conversations about days gone by and what waits in the future. Tears are optional, but remember to bring some tissue just in case you get overwhelmed.Make a predictionThe future is unpredictable. But after building up a solid circle of friends for four years, you may have a few hunches about where your classmates will end up. You can do things creatively. To start, list a series of funny questions, like “who will marry first in the future” or “who will become a star”, in a questionnaire. Then have everyone in the class vote on each question. But don’t reveal the result all at once. As long as the prediction is realized, you can throw a reunion party and reveal the results together. The cliffhanger will connect you and your classmates even after you graduate.
