Going back: wise choice for some
THE big city has always been the dream career destination of college students. But now, for some post-80s grads, the metropolis has begun to lose some of their original luster. And a reverse trend of heading back home has become a part of future job considerations.The reasons for leaving the big city dream behind are manifold. Two of the more common ones are trying to avoid the intense competition and the pressure, and seeing unprecedented opportunities in the growing economies back home.That first category may include people like Guo Fuyuan, a senior at Xi’an International Studies University. The 22-year-old Guo says that she was truly bothered by the annoying city life when she tried to look for work in places like Beijing and Shanghai. The high cost of living there and the aggravating traffic conditions kind of scared her off.She was clearly happy to get an enviable offer from the Bank of China in her hometown, Shangzhou, a quite place in Shaanxi province. "I’ll feel relieved starting my career in a relaxed environment at home," said Guo. It also includes Li Jingbiao, 24, of China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing. But, while Guo may be trying to adopt a more realistic attitude, Li’s still a bit idealistic in his choice. The Hebei native’s aspirations lie with journalism and he’s considering an offer from a news agency in Shijiazhuang. He hopes to write reports in English to support the exposure of his hometown to the rest of the world.Broadening out"I think there’s been a lot of publicity from reporters in the capital city, Beijing. But Shijiazhuang is not a well-trodden place," said Li. "I could bring my talent into play and fulfill my ambition of staying at the front."Whatever the motivation, returning home could send a positive signal to both students and society, thinks Wu Duo, a sociology professor at East China Normal University, in Shanghai. Wu says that students have matured and are willing to work in less prosperous places, even as "village officials", in some remote areas."This shows that students are consciously broadening their career goals and chances by not limiting themselves geographically and are responding better to market needs," Wu said. "Also, this trend will certainly help economic and cultural growth in less developed areas."In some more developed areas like Zhejiang, returning students have been attracted by the changes brought about by economic growth. According to Hong Xianlin, of the Pujiang economic zone in Zhejiang, the shift from traditional industries to high-tech companies in that area in recent years has provided a lot of research and development opportunities.Sun Bin, an architecture major at Hainan University, plans to return soon to Zhejiang to work for a construction design company in his home county, Changxing. "I chose to do it this way because there’ll be plenty of design projects I can work on here, and the standard of living isn’t much lower than that in a big city," Sun explained. "And, I can take better care of my elderly parents." 
