Working at the grassroots
Online applications for the civil service examination were opened on October 15. In two days more than 50,000 applicants nationwide had entered hoping to grab an “iron rice bowl”.The number of civil service vacancies, at about 18,000, is believed to be the biggest in history, according to the Beijing Morning Post. And 73 percent of them are frontline jobs, in city-level units or below.Two thirds of these posts are open to fresh college grads. 21st Century reporter Xu Jingxi interviewed three grads who are now civil servants at the frontline. Take a look at the challenges they have met at work and what they have learned from the experiences.Yu Liangde, 24,Tax bureau at the district level, HarbinA job offer in the civil service is not a ticket for a gravy train.Yu had expected that he could get off work on time before he took the job. But it has turned out that he often sacrifices lunchtimes for work. It’s not appropriate to leave queues of taxpayers and go for lunch.Besides, taxpayers are usually surly-looking after waiting for a long time. Yu said: “As a civil servant, I have to keep a smile on my face at all times.”At the front line, the office usually has a complex division of labor, according to Yu. For example, he has been giving invoices to taxpayers and taking them back for 18 months.Yu admitted that it could be monotonous, but it was still challenging.“The civil service examination is mainly about applicants’ general qualities. It doesn’t involve much assessment on specific skills at work,” said Yu.The grad majoring in law found that he hadn’t probed deep enough into tax laws. He also studies finance and accounting in his spare time.Dai Shaoshuai, 25,Huangdao Customs, QingdaoHeavy trucks come and go on the wharf. The noise and exhaust can make Dai dizzy. To examine goods, he goes from one container to another in the chilling sea wind.Dai and his colleagues work in shifts round the clock. Staying up late on a night shift may harm their health. But Dai and his colleagues offered to do a 24-hour service of custom declarations.The service used to be available from 8 am to 10 pm. Truck drivers sometimes had to waited on the wharf all night to go through the procedures.“It’s important to know about the people we serve,” said Dai. “We wouldn’t have revised our policy in response to drivers’ needs if we didn’t get out of the office and talk to them.”Compared to the office work, it’s also eye-opening for Dai to work at the frontline. He enjoys meeting people from different backgrounds ― truck drivers, longshoremen, importers and exporters ― sharing their stories and learning from them.“This is good for a fresh college grad, whose life used to be restricted mainly to the campus,” said Dai.Liang Simin, 24,Subdistrict office, ShenzhenWhen you work at the frontline, you should be prepared to deal with emergencies.Liang ran into a riot in a factory when she was on duty for the first time. The workers cut off the water and electricity and demanded their salaries.She handed out water to the protesting workers but got fierce stares.“That’s how I realized that people may sometimes have misunderstandings about the civil service. We need to be patient,” said Liang.It’s a bit understaffed at the frontline, Liang added. For example, she was the only one to organize an event promoting popular science in her community.She did the marketing job, going from government offices to schools and to museums. She also did the PR job of taking care of the guests.“But it’s good to have explored my potential by being a jack of all trades,” said Liang.(Liang Simin and Yu Liangde are not the real names of the interviewees.)
