Building a better university
As high school students, Sang Tian and Huang Yunru  dreamed of attending one of the world’s top universities. They slaved over their studies and were eventually admitted to prestigious schools – only one turned out to be far more prestigious than the other, according to new rankings of Asia’s top schools.Huang Yunru, 19, went to the University of Hong Kong, the No 1 school in Asia. Sang, also 19, went to Tsinghua University, which was ranked a disappointing 16th in Asia. When Sang heard the news, he couldn’t believe his ears. “What? How can it be?” he recalled thinking.The new list of Asia’s top 200 universities was published last month by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), a UK-based career and education company. The rankings have triggered heated discussions among Chinese people, since the mainland’s top two schools – Peking University (PKU) and Tsinghua University – were not in the top 10.Actually, this isn’t the first time that the schools have fared poorly in regional or global rankings. The 2010 world university list released by the magazine US News & World Report ranked Peking University at 50th and Tsinghua University at 56th. They were the only two mainland schools in the top 100. Meanwhile, 37 US universities made the top 100 list. And three of 10 Hong Kong universities made the top 50.Scoring the schoolsChinese universities’ poor performance has saddened many students. “I can’t understand their criteria,” said Sang. “At least we are a university with a long, proud history.”In fact, international ranking organizations care most about a university’s performance in academic peer review, student-to-faculty ratio, and the presence of international faculty and students.According to the QS list, Chinese universities are doing OK in academic peer review, with both Tsinghua and Peking University scoring a full 100. But when it comes to student-to-faculty ratio, their rankings drop, with Tsinghua at 22th and Peking at 23rd. QS stats show that an undergraduate class at Tsinghua has an average of 29 students. But at Harvard, most freshman classes have less than 20 students, and tutorials at Australian National University have only about 15 students. John Hennessy, president of Stanford University, said at the Fourth Chinese-Foreign University Presidents Forum in early May that a lack of small-group discussions has seriously affected the teaching quality at Chinese universities. This has also resulted in students being afraid to question or challenge teachers. That’s not the worst part. Chinese universities get even lower scores in the category of “international faculty” in the QS rankings. None of them made the top 20 in Asia. Catching up Many other academic figures and officials have noticed Chinese universities’ “weaknesses”. Last week, China’s Ministry of Education announced a program that will send 100 college leaders overseas to receive 21 days of training in foreign countries, including  Australia, Japan, the UK and the US. The tour aims to “allow Chinese college leaders to learn from the experience of the world’s famous universities”.People are debating the effectiveness of such a short-term tour for school leaders, but China is taking other steps to improve its universities, as well.On May 5, the State Council adopted the National Outline for Medium- and Long-Term Educational Reform and Development (2010-2020). In the outline, the central government promised to increase its spending on education to 4 percent of the country’s gross domestic product in 2012. The investment will help schools to construct better laboratories and internship bases, and it will attract more notable foreign scholars and experts to come to teach and research in China. The “soft” ability of Chinese universities also needs to be honed. At the Chinese-Foreign University Presidents Forum, Richard Levin, president of Yale University, said that there are two missing ingredients from Chinese universities’ undergraduate education: cross-curricular studies and the cultivation of critical thinking. So, reform is under way, but it will take time. John Hennessy, president of Stanford University, said that only a few universities can be called “world-class”, and he doesn’t expect China to have a “world-class” institution for another 20 to 50 years. 
