Refreshing fall fashion
Going back to school means two things: saying goodbye to summer outfits, and saying hello to fall clothes. You need outfits that offer up the perfect bridge between warm weather days and breezy fall temperatures. Here are some trendy items that can help you kick off a fashionable school year.Something kitschyKick off the new year with a little fun. Kitschy patterns really spice things up. Both Vogue and Seventeen magazines highlight kitschy prints. You can show off your personal style by wearing tops featuring your favorite childhood cartoon characters and confections.Plaid out thereNo wardrobe is complete without plaid. Tartans are in this season, says Arlene Goldstein, vice president of trend merchandising and fashion direction for Belk, an American clothier.Goldstein suggests styling a fitted plaid button-down shirt with a pair of skinny pants, or tying a plaid shirt around your waist. Pairing a plaid skater skirt with a cropped denim jacket is also cool.Acid-wash, high-rise jeansDenim is always your best friend. And this fall, you can go a little retro with high-rise jeans. These old rebellious jeans are perfect for those mornings when you hit the snooze button more times than you should. They’re looking particularly funky in acid wash.Vogue magazine suggests pairing them with one of your favorite summer crop tops. Keep it casual in cooler weather by adding a jacket.Walk in bootsFall boots come in all shapes and styles. The ankle boot and lace-up boot are really important, and so is the high-shaft boot. The over-the-knee boot is like the new kid on the block, according to Glamour magazine.Sweater weatherDon’t forget this fuzzy staple, a necessity for drafty lecture halls and chilly walks to class.Style a loose, varsity-striped sweater with skinny jeans, or an oversized cardigan with a skater skirt. If you’re feeling a little bolder, try one in a boho or Aztec print, or experiment with lengths.Borrowed from the gymRunning shoes, track pants and baseball caps are also trendy. And these sporty elements are popping up in unexpected ways — think running shoes worn with oversized coats, and track pants thrown on with stilettos. There are no rules when it comes to getting dressed for class.
