By students, for students
Wang Siyuan, 20, an English major student at Xiamen University, remembered vividly how he was overwhelmed by the size of the campus when he first arrived.His only solution was to ask for help from his roommates or upperclassmen, but now he has an alternative - he turns to apps on his smartphone, like he does to solve many problems in his daily life.Wang’s secret weapon is a mobile application called xmu-baodating, which offers an integrated student management system and information that makes campus life easier.Using such applications has been a trend in universities since 2012. Not only do freshmen use it to familiarize themselves with their university, but veterans also regard it as a lifestyle.Using apps as a lifestyleWang Siyuan downloaded xmu-baodating because all of his roommates and friends were using it. “They didn’t want me to be left behind, so they recommended it to me,” he says. “Now, I can’t live without it.”Wang uses xmu-baodating to check his class schedule, class results and lecture information. He also uses it to see whether the library is open, and whether there’s an available seat in the public study area.“The application is very useful on hot summer days, as we use the air conditioner a lot. It monitors the usage of electricity and notifies us before the electricity is used up. We never ran out of electricity this summer,” he said.Who creates these apps?In fact, many well-received applications were developed by students themselves.Fu Xingke, 19, is a finance major at Jimei University. Having experienced the unease of being a freshman, he decided to provide a solution. Fu and his team made a mobile application called caiyuanbang, which provides students of his university with useful information and a forum to exchange ideas.“We developed the program for mobile phones because they’ve become an indispensable part of students’ lives,” he says. Fu wants the application to be useful to different students and that’s why he added a forum to it. “Mobile applications are not only a source of information, but also a good communication tool,” he says.Creator as well as userApart from offering academic information, most university applications created by students offer general advice, such as places for eating out, buying fruit and organizing parties. But Wu Xiaohui took a step further by adding a food delivery service to her application.The 19-year-old electronic and information engineering student at the University of Science and Technology Beijing is the creator of 7cbeike, an application designed for her university. As a food lover, she understands students’ want to eat delicious food in their dormitory.“We organized a team to negotiate with nearby restaurant and shop owners, asking them to deliver orders to the university,” she says. As users themselves, the team members did their best to include all of their favorite restaurants and shops in the application. “We’re confident that students are going to love this service,” Wu says.
