Don’t build barriers
Being away from home and high school friends, lonely college freshmen need to make new friends as soon as possible. However, many find it difficult. They don’t realize that minor things, such as a curtain around the bed, wearing earphones or having a stubbly beard can affect interpersonal relationships. In the MyCOS and Tencent survey of more than 12,000 college freshmen from December 2010 to March 2011, almost four in every 10 were worried by relationships. The two top concerns relate to members of the opposite sex and to roommates. Xiao Yibo, 19, a freshman in bioengineering at Northeast Agricultural University, is upset that trivial things spoiled his relations with roommates and classmates. Xiao has been estranged from his roommate and former buddy because he was short-tempered with him for dawdling before leaving for classes. Instead of talking about the problem, Xiao bit his tongue, but looked impatient.Xiao felt hard done by when some classmates gave him the cold shoulder after he decided to study harder. He sat in the front row in class and regularly visited the library. “They thought I wanted to appear different and to show off. But I don’t think it’s necessary to explain it to them,” said Xiao. “I’ll go my own way, whether they understand me or not.” He chose to be a loner, going to classes and to the library on his own. Xiao is just one of the growing numbers of young loners nowadays. They seem to care little about others, shut down communication and indulge in their own worlds.“But they actually feel sad at ‘being excluded’,” said Bai Jingxiang, a psychology tutor at China Women’s University. “In fact, it’s they themselves who build ‘walls’.” Take the curtains which female students love to surround their beds with to create private zones as an example. Luo Guoxin, 18, a freshman in business administration at Northeast Normal University, used to have a curtain to protect her privacy. So did all the other roommates in her dorm. But Luo gradually felt restricted by the cloth. “I didn’t know whether a roommate was sleeping or awake behind her curtain, so I dared not chat with others in the dorm,” Luo recalled. Neither did she dare to talk about any roommate. “What if the girl suddenly lifted up the curtain and appeared?” said Luo. Luo and a roommate couldn’t stand the suffocating silence and removed their curtains. The two feel closer to each other than to other roommates for they enjoyed more communication. “The curtain is a sign saying ‘stay away from me’ even if it’s transparent,” said Bai. It is the same with the textbook you hold in front of your chest when chatting. And the earphones you put on when your roommates make too much noise. These are all hints of unfriendliness. Some students may argue that they mean well when they choose to put on earphones to give roommates a hint instead of complaining about the noise.  But Bai warned that silent hints might make others more uncomfortable than honest words. “When there is a smell from dirty clothes in the dorm, the worst thing you could do is to suddenly stand up and use a room spray,” said Bai. “You will appear as a fussy person.”A better solution may be to mention the importance of cleanliness, without naming names, when people chill out. 
