Fruitful summer vacations
Summer vacations should be a time of leisure for college students. However, many of them use the opportunity to participate in summer projects instead. From volunteering work, environmental protection tours to internships, students aim to get ahead and prepare for their future.Shi Zhujia, a mechanical engineering major at Tsinghua University, had the summer vacation she always dreamed of. The 20-year-old animal lover organized a wild animal protection project in Nabanhe River Watershed National Nature Reserve, Yunnan province. The project changed her attitude toward animals and environmental protection.Shi and eight other students spent 10 days in the nature reserve. The local ranger took them several kilometers into the reserve, but they didn’t see any wild animals as they live in the heart of the reserve.Even so, this didn’t ruin their enthusiasm because they were amazed by the ranger’s survival skills. “The only thing we took was a bag of rice,” says Shi. “When we were hungry, the ranger would chop down a bamboo stem, fill it with rice and cook it for us.” When they were thirsty, the ranger would make cups out of bamboo.After a few days, Shi started wondering if they were actually helping, because so much bamboo was being cut down because of them. The ranger said that even though their project was harming the environment, in the long run it would contribute to the protection of the nature reserve.“Some day you might use the knowledge you learned here to build a machine that guards the reserve, instead of me,” he told Shi. “Then, nobody will need to cut down bamboo.”“His words touched me,” says Shi. “I realized that I don’t need to be at the forefront of environmental protection. As long as I do what I’m good at, I can make a difference to the environment and animals.”‘Volunteer work made me a better person’Xu Dan loves vacations because it means she can spend more time volunteering. The 21-year-old English major from Zhejiang Normal University believes that volunteering has changed her life and made her a better person.Two years ago, Xu was an introverted girl. One day, she saw a group of volunteers picking up trash in the street. Since she had no plans for the summer vacation and wanted to make some friends, she plucked up her courage and joined them.“I used to think volunteering is nothing more than picking up trash. Now I know that the essence of volunteer work is helping others and gaining self-esteem,” Xu says. Her volunteering schedule is full: teaching migration workers’ children English from Mondays to Fridays, picking up trash on Saturdays, and visiting old people on Sundays.For Xu, visiting old people is the most rewarding activity. “I help them clean their homes and cut their hair. I talk to them and listen to their life stories. These are just small things, but I’m addicted to it because every time I help others I feel satisfied and more confident about myself,” Xu says.According to Xu, the positive energy she gets from volunteering reflects on the way she deals with people and sees the world. “I can see things from other people’s point of view and look at things more positively. I think I’m going to make volunteering a lifelong undertaking,” she says.
