Internet offers fast track to fame
Gone are the days when being a celebrity meant reaching the top of the social ladder. With the Internet as their springboard, people no longer need to be actors, sports stars or politicians to be celebrities.You may still remember the time when Furong Jiejie, or “Sister Lotus”, and Fengjie, or “Sister Phoenix”, emerged online. All of a sudden they were the talk of the town because of their crazy outfits and eccentric values. Then there was Yu Xiuhua, a cerebral palsy sufferer who became renowned as a talented poet online. And let’s not forget the 14-year-old South Korean boy who got famous by simply broadcasting himself having dinner every day.But when the word wanghong, or “Internet celebrity”, was named one of Yaowen Jiaozi magazine’s “popular cyber words” in 2015, its meaning had changed. Those who now dominate the world of wanghong are largely famous for their heavily Photoshopped selfies and the exclusive lifestyles they advertise on social media.The same thing is happening overseas as well. There’s a stereotype that women on Instagram are obsessed with posting photos. This has led to the rise of “Instagram Husbands”, men who are willing–or most likely forced–to take snapshots of their wives or girlfriends for their Instagram accounts.“Behind every cute girl on Instagram is a guy like me,” one guy says in the joke video that launched the term “Instagram Husbands”. Another confesses, “I’ve had to delete all the apps on my phone just to make room for more photos.”But what wanghong offer their fans is much more than a bunch of pretty pictures. “There is a longing for the effortless and classy way of life,” commented China Youth Daily.Though their lifestyle may seem “effortless”, some wanghong take great pains to run their Taobao stores, communicate with their fans and think of ways to retain their viewership, for example.Zhang Dayi, a famous wanghong with over 4 million followers on Sina Weibo, revealed to Southern People Weekly some of her secrets for attracting fans. “Usually people look up to celebrities at a 45-degree angle, metaphorically speaking. But I reduced that angle to 15 degrees, because no one likes to strain their necks too much,” she said. Her social media strategies include being more interactive and amicable with fans. “As soon as you let down your guard, people will start to approach,” she said.
