Student cohabitation raises controversy
A seminar to foster morality in college students named for Pang Jiaojiao, a 23-year-old math junior at Hebei University of Economics and Business, was held in Dingzhou Jizhong Vocational College in Hebei Province on Tuesday, raising a recent nationwide anti-cohabitation campaign.The seminar comes after Pang called on about 1,000 students to sign their names on two banners splayed with vows rejecting male-female off-campus cohabitation in late April. The activity soon developed into a nationwide campaign and was taken up by several universities."It was brave of Pang to take a stand against cohabitation. She represents a dynamic voice of social consciousness. Though there are multiple opinions about college-student cohabitation, it should be discouraged." said Ren Zhenjiao, vice president of the morals education committee of the China Ethics Society.Pang got the idea after being inundated with fliers advertising "painless abortion" at her dorm. "This kind of thing makes me feel insulted as a woman." And she stressed that she doesn’t oppose students pursuing virtuous love, and that her boyfriend agree with her.From vows to restrictionsShijiazhuang Vocational College of Foreign Language Translation was the first school to respond to Pang’s campaign. It has taken a bold step to restrict cohabitation entirely."We’ve founded a campus supervisory team to root out cohabitation when it occurs，" said Wang Zhenling, vice secretary of the college’s Party committee. About 85 percent among the current 5,000 students in the college are female students who may easily become the victims of forced or coercive cohabitation, Wang said.However, no case has surfaced thus far, according to him. “There are many listings for rooms available for rent for a day or even an hour all over town," Heated opinionsThe anti-cohabitation campaign has stirred fierce debate among experts, with some believing that students’ individual rights to make choices in this regard shouldn’t be violated.Li Yinhe thought these were personal choices, a social scientist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences said. And Peng Xiaohui, a sexuality professor said that forcing cohabitation underground may make it all the more risky for female students.Governmental guidance on the matter has been mixed. In 2004, the Ministry of Education (MOE) issued a notice encouraging schools to forbid students from renting apartments outside their campuses. That year, most students in Guangzhou returned to their dorms. However, a year later telling schools that they can’t outright forbid students from forming into partnerships or getting married. A survey from 2007 polling more than 80,000 college students showed that 70 percent of students are tolerant of cohabitation and that about 14.4 percent of students have had sex, the Nanjing Morning Post reported last April.Moving away from taboosXu Xiaoyang, an associate professor at Chongqing Medical University and a gynecologist at one of the university’s affiliated hospitals, said she’s witnessed a surge in abortions from female students."They always come surreptitiously and in a state of great shame," Xu said. "I believe universities should put greater emphasis on keeping students healthy overall – providing them with condoms and other birth-control methods."Fang Kun, 27, a third-year graduate student at Peking University, agreed with Xu. "I hope the college can give students more concrete instructions on how to lead a healthy sex life after graduation."
