Mind the gap year
While her fellow students prepare for the new semester, Chen Yanmei is on her way to Tibet.The 19-year-old management major at Shanghai University has no plans to return to campus anytime soon as she’s taken a gap year to travel.“College life is not much different from high school,” said sophomore Chen. “I feel burnout and study wears me out. So I think I’ll take a year off and come back with renewed enthusiasm.”Taking a gap year in college has become more appealing to students. While experts say that taking time off could be beneficial, there are several hurdles.According to Xinmin Evening News, an online survey conducted by Sina.com indicated that 73.3 percent of Chinese students say that they long to experience a gap year.Geng Bin, of the students affairs office at Wenzhou University, supports this finding. Geng said: “We have received more students’ applications for suspension in the last two to three summers. Many of them are trying to launch startups or to travel and put aside study temporarily.”Yang Jia, a history sophomore at Beijing Normal University, took a year off to tour Australia on a working holiday.The gap year turned out to be a boost to his study on his return to campus.“I found myself more confident and self-sufficient,” said Yang. “And more importantly, during the year, I thought a lot and now I know what I really want. All my grades are higher.”Gappers also have an edge in the job market. In a survey in 2011 done by YouGov, a UK-based market research agency, reported gapyear.com, 63 percent of HR professionals in the UK said that a constructive gap year spent volunteering or gaining work experience overseas made a job application stand out.However, Xiong Bingqi, deputy-director of the 21st Century Education Research Institute, said that there is a different attitude to gap years in China.“In the West, as long as you earn enough credits you get the diploma,” said Xiong. “So students can suspend their study and take leave.”But in China, a suspension comes usually with a serious injury, sickness or other special reasons. Traveling is not one of them, according to Xiong.But Nanjing Daily reported early this year that some schools such as Nanjing University of Information Engineering and Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics are experimenting with students’ “startups trading for credits”. According to the plan, students can earn college credits by setting up businesses off campus. With a detailed plan and school approval, students can obtain time out.But the newspaper also said that the specifics of such policy have yet to be worked out.Geng Bin suggests an alternative for students. With more universities connected to their counterparts in the West, exchange programs can be a very good platform for students to travel and experience foreign culture while retaining their active status on campus.“At least for now when gap year is not very doable for most students, exchange programs seem to be the best choice,” said Geng.
