Students take lead on micro blogs
Yan Xiao has a routine. Every morning, the 21-year-old clinical medicine major at Hubei University of Medicine checks a number of micro blogs and makes a note of all the interesting information she comes across.It’s not because she’s addicted to micro blogs. Yan is collecting material to generate content for her department’s official micro blog account.As more and more universities and departments are opening their own official micro blog accounts, students are playing an important role in generating their content.Students take controlAfter Huazhong University of Science and Technology and Wuhan University launched their official Sina Weibo accounts in late 2009, a large number of universities created official accounts in 2010 and 2011. By 2012, more than 90 percent of “211” and “985” project universities in China had launched their own micro blog accounts, according to Mei Jingsong, chief editor of Sina Education.Yan’s department also created its account in 2011, but back then the account was operated by tutors. “They didn’t know how to interact with students on the micro blog, so we paid little attention to its content. All that changed when students were brought in to operate the account in 2012,” says Yan.It’s a similar story at Wang Yubin’s university. Together with two of his peers, the 21-year-old software engineering major at Chongqing University has been running his university’s student affairs micro blog for one year.“We use micro blog jargon and emoticons to make our content more relatable to followers,” Wang says. “For example, we refer to ourselves as diaos and to followers as buddies.”His university has been recruiting students to operate the student affairs micro blog since 2011. Their work, however, is supervised by tutors, who offer guidance to the student operators.One man showIn contrast, Hang Ronggan runs his university’s innovation society micro blog without the help of a tutor. Even so, he has attracted a large number of followers and the micro blog is now the second most popular campus account on Sina Weibo.The 23-year-old telecommunication engineering major at Xidian University in Xi’an says the key is to offer followers the information they want.“We act like an information board for our followers,” he says. “By interviewing university officials, we spread the latest school policies.”The account’s most popular tweet, which was reposted more than 1,000 times in one month, was about the university’s career center staff and introduced policies that support start-up business.
