Consultants not always best option
An angry voice awoke Wang Ziji. The 21-year-old electronic and information science and technology major at Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics heard a voice shouting, “Why are you constantly changing my consultant?”“It must be my roommate arguing again with his study abroad agent,” Wang thought. It had already happened several times, which made Wang wonder if having an agent was a wise choice.In fact, many students who plan to study abroad have the same concern. Below, their upperclassmen talk about their experiences and professionals offer advice.Poor writingZhang Na, 24, is an archaeology major of Northwest University. She decided to leave the application work to a study abroad agent as it was already quite late.At first, the process was smooth, but when Zhang read her recommendation letter she noticed a problem. “I wasn’t satisfied with it,” says Zhang. “I could tell the writer hadn’t put any thought into it because it said I’m a ‘promising young man’ in the letter.” She had to rewrite the personal statement and recommendation letters herself in the end. “I didn’t trust them anymore,” she says.Shu Hui, head of the Korean department at the Shanghai Overseas Affairs Service Center Co Ltd, admits that Zhang’s experience is not unusual. “Good personal statements and recommendation letters require a lot of detailed information. If the consultants can’t work closely with the applicant, they are not likely to deliver a satisfactory result,” she says.Change of consultantAnother problem Zhang experienced with the agent was changing consultants. “My first two consultants left the company midway through the application process, so I had to get used to a new one twice,” she says.Wang Ziji’s roommate was even more frustrated about the constant changing of consultants as none of his consultants handled the handover well. “He had to explain his application status to the new one every time, which is the opposite of what he expected from the agency,” says Wang.DIY or study abroad agent?Meng Fang, 22, studies computer science at Carnegie Mellon University. She decided to apply for the master’s degree program by herself after comparing the process of applying by herself to applying through an agent. “I evaluated different elements of the application process and came to the conclusion that I should do it by myself,” she says.Cao Xianshui, a senior study abroad expert and the author of Further Your Study in the US, believes that whether students should hire a study abroad agent or not depends on their individual case.“For well-heeled students who want to apply for a less competitive university, finding a study abroad agent is a good way to save some trouble,” he says. “But for students who have enough self-discipline and good learning and analysis skills, applying by themselves may give them a better chance of getting into a top university.”
