Students get creative in bid to escape heat
With summer heating up, campus dormitories without air conditioners in Central China are pushing students in pursuit of cooler temperatures to become creative. Central China Normal University in Wuhan, Hubei province, opened its air-conditioned sports hall to 600 students to make beds on the floor when a heat wave hit the region along the Yangtze River last month. A joke circulating on the college BBS goes: “Sleeping on dormitory beds is like baking a pancake; just turn over and bake the other side.”Students nationwide are commencing a campaign to keep cool in their dormitories. Here, some of them share their creative ideas, and it doesn’t involve sleeping on the dormitory roof.Recycled waterbedGong Lei is a sophomore majoring in graphic design at Wuhan Donghu University. His roommates collect used water bottles to exchange them for cash. But when Wuhan was hit by 35 C temperatures last month, Gong came up with the idea of turning them into a waterbed.Gong and his roommates worked together to turn the idea into reality. Two of them filled the empty bottles with water, while the other two tied all the bottles together into a bed. It took them 40 minutes to finish the task. Now they take turns to sleep on the waterbed using a thin mat.Cool vegetablesHong Li, a sophomore majoring in architecture at Guangdong University of Technology, recently read on Sina Weibo that holding a wax gourd while sleeping can cool the body by three degrees. When he couldn’t bear the heat any longer, he decided to give it a shot.Hong spent 15 yuan on a 5-kilogram wax gourd from a supermarket. “I used it for several days and the results were good,” says Hong.Inflatable poolStudents at Hubei University of Technology set up an inflatable pool in their dormitory. They play card games and even eat instant noodles in the pool.“One of my roommates bought an inflatable pool for 260 yuan,” says Wang Xiaoxing.The inflatable pool is 2.3 meters long and nearly covers the entire floor of the dormitory, which is only 20 square meters in size. Wang and his roommates used 10 buckets of water to fill the inflatable pool.“Students from other dormitories often come to cool down in the pool,” Wang says proudly.Tunnel campChen Quanhong, a junior majoring in geographic information systems at China University of Geosciences, Wuhan, is camping in a tunnel with several students.“Our school is built around a mountain and there is a tunnel that connects both parts of the campus.” says Chen. “It’s much cooler than the dormitory. You don’t even need a fan.” Chen shared his discovery with students online: “All you need is a tent, a mat and some insect repellent. Just don’t drink too much water, because the toilet is far away.”
