The world's most beautiful college campuses
Forbes asked a panel of architects and campus designers to nominate their picks for the best-looking campuses in the world. These are their top choices.Kenyon CollegeGambier, Ohio, USMike Evans, a principal at Norfolk, Va., design firm Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas + Company, says to be beautiful a campus must have a “signature campus space as a carrier of the campus brand.” At Kenyon College, that space is “Middle Path,” a 10-foot-wide footpath that serves as the Gothic hilltop campus’ central artery. More than just a trail, it’s a village green for the tight-knit campus community. Sergei Lobanov-Rostovsky, who teaches 17th-century poetry at Kenyon, says the college, both isolated and pastoral, is “a small place to think big thoughts.”Oxford UniversityOxford, EnglandTeaching within Oxford’s stone walls dates as far back as the 11th century, and the school is considered a paradigm for all college campuses. With its labyrinth of quads, cloisters, and archways, it evokes elegance and tradition at every turn. “Its monastic roots and the spectacular quality of its buildings make it an architectural wonderland,” says David Mayernik, associate professor at Notre Dame’s School of Architecture.Princeton UniversityPrinceton, N.J., USPrinceton’s style is pure Collegiate Gothic; most of it executed in gray stone covered in, yes, ivy. As imposing as these old stone structures are, the campus keeps life on a “human scale” by preserving green spaces and walkability.Sinuous footpaths, archways, plazas – all are designed to inspire spontaneous discussion and learning.Scripps CollegeClaremont, Calif., USThe total plan of this women’s college, founded in the 1920′s, has always called for artistic connection between buildings and landscape. Together, architect Gordon Kaufmann, in collaboration with landscape architect Edward Huntsman-Trout, created a distinctively Southern Californian blend of Mission Revival-inspired architecture and landscape, which is lovely, evocative and intact. An expert in deciduous trees, Trout planted rows of liquid amber trees to give the students “a sense of autumn” come fall. He also peppered the campus with tulip trees, sycamores, almond and orange trees, as well as rare shrubs.Stanford UniversityPalo Alto, Calif., USNew additions like the Science and Engineering Quad manage to gracefully blend modern and technological elements with the timeless, elegant aesthetics of the campus’ early California Mission Revival architecture.  The campus also scores big points for its dramatic entrance via Palm Drive, its romantic Spanish red-tile roofs and myriad patches of green.Trinity CollegeDublin, IrelandThe most celebrated structure on the campus, which was founded by Queen Elizabeth in 1592, is the Old Library. Some have called the library’s main chamber, known as the Long Room, a “cathedral of the book” because of its timbered barrel-vaulted ceiling and shelving that resembles side chapels of an old baroque church. The Long Room is also where the famous Book of Kells (an illuminated holy manuscript circa 800) is kept under lock and key.Tsinghua UniversityBeijing, ChinaForbe’s panel of architects says natural setting plays a big part in assessing a campus’ beauty. In that regard, this campus is blessed: Founded in 1925, Tsinghua sits on the former site of the Qing Dynasty’s royal gardens. Many of Beijing’s most notable historical sites, like the Summer Palace, are close by. The campus is peppered with artificial ponds where stone benches and floating lotus blossoms inspire reflection.United States Air Force AcademyColorado Springs, Colo., USKevin Lippert, publisher of the Princeton Architectural Press, picked this campus because it is “a masterpiece of mid-20th-century American Modernism, rather than something in the traditional Collegiate Gothic or Oxford style.” He adds: “Many of the buildings are clad in aluminum, suggesting the skin of airplanes, and the Cadet’s Chapel there is often called one of the most beautiful buildings in America, collegiate or otherwise.”University of BolognaBologna, ItalyArguably the oldest university in the Western world, the University of Bologna’s actual “campus” is the city of Bologna itself, says David Meyerick, who teaches at Notre Dame’s School of Architecture. “What the university lacks in personal identity, it makes up for in being inextricably tied to its environment,” says Meyerick.University of California, Santa CruzSanta Cruz, Calif., USHoused on a former ranch perched above the Pacific, the UCSC campus offers open meadows, redwood forests and panoramic ocean views. Architect Natalie Shivers says the California campus’ buildings and “circulation networks” for both cars and pedestrians “are carefully designed and tucked into the natural landscape” to preserve both the environment and the vistas. It’s no wonder students like to study outdoors and that the campus has created 100 points of wireless access throughout the grounds.
