Jobless cause major problem
Last thing a college student wants to face is unemployment upon graduation. But when job prospects become a factor which determines whether a major is axed or not, teachers and students are equally worried.Is college, which is supposed to be an incubator for academic interests and independent thinking, being transformed into a factory solely for producing professionals for a certain trade?These worries are triggered by a Ministry of Education (MOE) announcement on November 21. If the employment rate of graduates in a college major is below 60 percent for two consecutive years, the major’s enrollment quota will be reduced till it is phased out completely.The ministry is sounding an alarm to universities, which haven’t paid enough attention to graduate employment, said Zhao Yuehua. He is a senior editor of the magazine China University Students Career Guide.Zhao explained: “Universities have been focusing on expanding their enrollment. But the job market may not see a growth in demand as big as that in enrollment.”Establishing new majors is a means of expanding student numbers, but there may be little difference among these subdivided specialties.“With similar knowledge and skills, graduates are in fierce competition for the same, limited occupations,” said Zhao.Some scholars are worried that the ministry’s new policy is advocating a market-oriented college education.Han Zijing, a professor of Chinese language at Chongqing Normal University, is one of them.“Blindly chasing after the ever-changing market demand to add or subtract a specific major will aggravate the unemployment among graduates,” said Han.Take the major of law as an example. This year MyCOS lists law studies as one of the 10 college majors with the highest risk of unemployment.In the past decades, with the law major getting popular in the job market, many universities, whether they were strong in liberal arts or science and technology, established the major of law and enrolled a large number of students. This has generated an oversupply of law students.He Mingyi, 21, is studying law at Beijing University of Technology. He is not confident to compete with law students from renowned law schools in the job market.“My university is strong in engineering instead of law studies,” said He.The ministry’s policy, according to Zhao Yuehua, is urging universities to think over their characteristics and allocate resources to strong majors instead of scattering resources on weak ones.He Mingyi is also disappointed about his college courses. “The courses are centered on one theme: help students to pass the national judicial examination and land a job,” said He.But He is actually more interested in learning about legal philosophy. “I want to enhance my logical and critical thinking during college years,” said He.Under job-hunting pressure, fewer and fewer college students would like to dive into basic humanities such as literature, history and philosophy.Han, professor in Chinese language, complained that her students go after skill training courses that can help them gain vocational certificates, but just skip “useless” basic courses in appreciating literature.Chinese language and literature is on MyCOS’s list of college majors with bleak employment outlook this year. The major seems to be in danger of being phased out according to MOE’s new policy.Xiao Haitao, a professor from the institute of higher education at Shenzhen University, clarifies that the policy is targeted at majors of vocational training, such as computer science and engineering.“Majors of basic science shouldn’t be canceled even if their employment rates stand below 60 percent,” said Xiao.But is phasing out a major of vocational training the only way to improve employment? Updating the teaching content ?in accordance with the need of employers may be a better solution, said Tian Jiechang.Tian is the deputy chief of the department of student affairs at Shandong Jiaotong University. At Tian’s university, students majoring in computer science learn Japanese. For the school has seen a boom in software outsourcing business between China and Japan in recent years.“If a major has a bleak employment outlook, we may downsize the enrollment or enroll students every two years. But we seldom think of axing it,” said Tian.
