Give free rein to your creativity
Are you bored with routine jobs? Here are a few ideas for working in popular professions which offer more opportunities to be creative.At the same time, they’re rewarding in many ways.A senior travel consultantHe Xinling, 27, who works for Shenzhen Tianhai Travel AgencyI worked as a tour guide after graduating from university with a bachelor’s degree in tourism management in 2008.It was a tough job, as I had to run around the country, and deal with all sorts of complaints. The clients were seldom satisfied - they wanted to go to more places with less money.So after two years I began to design routes by myself, and can change the plan on request. Gradually, I got positive feedback from many clients and my boss promoted me to be a travel consultant.Job description:A senior consultant’s major duty is to plan and manage a client’s trip. It involves helping an individual or group to design the best routes and prepare for any emergencies or troubles ahead.This job requires working closely with clients and industry agencies to provide business trips or vacation itineraries. A consultant has to arrange airline tickets, hotel accommodation and car rentals. It’s important to confirm bookings and reservations.It’s a consultant’s job to save the clients’ money and keep them informed about a trip.Requirements and pay conditions:A qualified senior travel consultant has to be service-oriented, knowledgeable and possess people skills. The pay on average is 500,000 yuan a year. There’ll be bonuses and travel.DietitianWang Lei, 30, dietitian in Nutrition Department in Beijing Emergency Medical CenterWhen I graduated from Beijing University of Chinese Medicine in 2005, I first worked as a nurse. The job was tiring and I didn’t want to stay in the position for my whole life, so I studied food and nutrition in my spare time.Dietitians became popular during that period. As I mastered the basics of medicine, I passed the exams and got a certification. I enter the Nutrition Department of our hospital.Food quality and safety is a big issue. So I got invited to be the health consultant for many TV programs.Job description:Dietitians are experts in food and nutrition. They design dietary programs to treat and prevent certain illnesses for either individuals or groups.They educate people about eating properly. Their skills could land them jobs at day care centers, schools, universities, nursing homes, prisons and, increasingly often with the media.Requirements and pay conditions:To become a registered dietitian, take the test for public dietitians created by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security.It’s usually 100,000 yuan a year in hospital. The highest is about 200,000 yuan a year.IllustratorXia Da, 30, a cartoonist in HangzhouDrawing pictures for a living is the day-to-day reality of those who work in illustration and cartooning.They often work as freelances, send work to publishers and receive commissions.After graduating from university in 2005, I came to Beijing to draw. I kept sending my work to magazines and publishing houses, but I got mostly refusals. But I didn’t give up.I persisted drawing and telling stories in my own style, and finally I published my work in a Japanese magazine.My portfolio of published works paved my way to become a professional illustrator.Job description:An illustrator creates visual images for books, articles or for a website. They often have an easily identifiable style.Requirements and pay conditions:An illustrator has to learn the basic art skills and how to use the latest design software programs on the market.Salaries range from 4,000 yuan to more than 20,000 yuan per month.
