Are you ready for a new life abroad?
For college grads with an offer from a British university, August marks the final month of preparing to emerge into a whole new linguistic and cultural context. Apart from routine tasks such as applying for a visa and buying flight tickets, there are some other important tasks that students need to finish before setting off in order to have a smooth ride in their host country.FinanceCurrency differences and related regulation mean it’s important to consider how to bring money into the destination country. The most common solutions are taking cash, or using bank drafts, traveler’s cheques, wire transfers and credit cards.These solutions all involve exchanging RMB into a foreign currency, therefore professionals suggest that students follow their target currency’s exchange rate in order to get a better price.“Timing is important when buying a foreign currency,” Qiu Di, director of the fortune management center at a Beijing-based local branch of the Bank of China, told Xiaoxiang Morning Herald.For example, if the exchange rate of the RMB against the US dollar is going up, it’s wise to buy US dollars as late as possible, and vice versa. Some smartphone applications can help students follow the trend.Qiu suggests students start checking the exchange rate six months ahead of their departure date. If the exchange rate fluctuates and students aren’t sure about its trend, “they should exchange several times to minimize the risk,” he said.After choosing the best time comes selecting the best place. Though the People’s Bank of China sets the exchange rate, different banks offer slightly different rates, so it’s best to compare them before making a purchase.Taking the money abroad is another tricky task. Although taking it in cash seems to be the easiest way, it’s neither safe nor practical. According to Chinese law, anyone going abroad can carry no more than the equivalent of 5,000 US dollars in foreign currency without permission.Therefore, professionals recommend that students incorporate several solutions: Bring cash that covers the living costs for the first several weeks, use a bank draft, traveler’s cheques or a wire transfer to pay for the tuition fees, and take a credit card in case of an emergency.StudyIn order to graduate with a preferable mark, students need to be well prepared academically. According to the British Council, courses in the UK are often in the form of lectures, seminars and tutorials. This approach to teaching allows students to absorb new knowledge and discuss ideas with the professor or their peers.Chinese students, however, many of whom are only familiar with lectures, tend to neglect the importance of seminars and tutorials. They don’t actively participate in seminar discussions and don’t make full use of the tutorials. “What they don’t know is that daily performance often makes up as much as 40 percent of a student’s final score. This is largely determined by students’ performance in seminars and the outcome of tutorial sessions,” said Lin Ying, manager of the UK department at Beijing JJL Overseas Education Consulting and Services Co Ltd.PackingPacking is always a tough task for people who are going to travel far. This is especially true for students, since they are going to live in a foreign country.Many overseas education agencies provide a list of things students should bring to their destination country. Though these vary, they all mention that important documents should be kept in carry-on luggage. Students should also keep several copies of these documents in their check-in luggage.Other things students should take with them are any personal electronic devices, some clothes and shoes, and medicine. The British Council strongly recommends students take a list of emergency contacts and a list of everything they bring with them, just in case they get lost or lose their luggage.Many students wonder if they should bring cooking devices with them, such as rice cookers and knives, for example. Lin Ying, manager of the UK department at Beijing JJL Overseas Education Consulting and Services Co Ltd, says students should buy these things after they arrive in the destination country. “It is easy to buy these things in British supermarkets. Besides, students can always buy second-hand cooking devices from their upperclassmen,” she said.AccommodationThere are two common accommodation options, namely university accommodation and private accommodation.If your course lasts for more than one year, you will be eligible for the former. If you apply in advance, the university will offer you a bedroom in a hall of residence, which has a member of staff living on the premises. Normally, the bedroom consists of a bed, desk, bookshelves and sometimes a sink. Other facilities, such as the kitchen and bathroom, are shared with the other tenants. Most halls have a lounge or a common room where students can chat and watch TV together.If you’re not eligible for university accommodation or you prefer a more cost effective solution, you can choose private accommodation. Students can get “to let” information from the university welfare office, adverts around campus or on the Internet, and local estate agents. If you plan to rent, think about the utility costs, such as gas electricity and water, before you pay the deposit and sign the contract. According to Chen Jianqian, senior consultant at Amber Education, these costs can be high but are often overlooked by students.Chen suggests students take photos of the accommodation before they move in. “There have been cases in which landlords charged students for not maintaining their accommodation properly, but because the students didn’t take photos they couldn’t refute the claims,” she said.
