Hook up with a start-up
Joining an established, highly *prestigious company has become more difficult for graduates in recent years.It seems that many major corporations have a steady team of staff. If positions become vacant you have to compete with hundreds of applicants to get a job interview.*Consequently, more grads are working for start-up companies, which hire fewer people.It’s both highly risky and *rewarding. A start-up company provides an uncertain future.But if it *merges and becomes an established name or brand, you’ll have a greater sense of achievement than you would work for a big corporation.If you want to join a small company, it’s useful to know that start-ups and big companies have vastly different career paths, and you’ll find *contrasting corporate cultures.“Teamwork is especially important in a start-up company,” said Tang Qin, HR manager in Sangfor Technologies Co, Ltd, a company offering Internet access management *solutions and *VPN products which was launched in 2001.Tang explained that a start-up company often has a small staff but big plans and goals.  “In a start-up, it is almost like you are dealing with a big *jigsaw puzzle – you want to create something, but you cannot do it alone. So it requires you to cooperate with others,” she said.“But big companies always want you to spend all your time on small details.”Liu Xiao is co-founder and senior business manager in To My Bill, an electronic commerce company launched in Shenzhen last December.He agrees that teamwork is the key in start-up companies.“The whole company is like a tightly-knit family, and the feeling can make your work day more pleasant,” said Liu, whose company has only eight employees.But having fewer staff means that you have to shoulder a lot of responsibilities. It puts you in a position to make a huge impact.“If you do amazing work, the entire company will benefit,” Liu said.“You may be congratulated by the CEO and other leaders directly.” Start-up companies also have quicker paths to promotion, and value *innovative ideas more than big corporations.Lin Yan, 28, graduated in computer science from Shantou University and joined Sangfor in 2005.He joined the company after two months’ internship. In four months, he became a mentor. Six months later he became a project manager.“If I have a crazy idea I come out with it. A start-up company will always have room to entertain your creative imagination.”Start-up companies also have a more casual working atmosphere. Zhang Xin, 25, a PR manager of Beijing Yoka Games Culture Ltd, always wears a T-shirt and jeans to work.Staff can play *board games during the working day, because it helps them to design new games.“You get more freedom,” said Zhang, “But you must get things done before the deadline. If you are too laid back it will be easily noticed.”Zhang Yuxia, a human resources consultant at Zhaopin.com says that working for a start-up company can look great on a resume.“If your company succeeds, your future employers will see that you had a hand in helping a company grow. It will *accelerate your future career.
