Job-seeker gets creative
Have you ever considered drawing out your resume as a flashy cartoon, instead of dwelling on all the details in a normal text-heavy version?Yu Boya, 22, an English major who graduated from Guangdong University of Foreign Studies last year, did just that. The job applicant’s cartoon resume received thousands of views on Sina Weibo.Many companies have expressed an interest in Yu. “I was inspired by the wild ideas of past job seekers, including those who put themselves in advertisements. I just wanted to have a try myself,” she said. “But to be honest, I never expected my attempt would draw so much public attention.”In the resume, an adorable drawing of herself is surrounded by seven colorful bubbles that contain all her extracurricular activities, such as being an English translator, a tourist guide, a volunteer and a model.The female college student was first struck by the idea of making a cartoon resume in early January. “I was hesitant about it, because presenting my resume in an unconventional manner could be risky,” said Yu.  “But my ideal job is in the attention-seeking PR and event planning industry, where out-of-the-box thinking is valued. So I decided to go ahead with it.”After hearing about the plan, Yu’s boyfriend, a graphic designer working for an IT company, decided to help turn her idea into reality. He drew up a series of cartoons using different software packages, integrating all the information from her paper resume.The cartoon resume really catches the essence of digital media design - it is succinct, clear-cut and eye-catching. “It’s about a new line of thinking,” she said. “For instance, rather than listing the names of every book I’ve translated, we just highlighted the number.”Despite catching the eyes of human resource managers, Yu, who participated in a TV job-hunting program in April, has kept a cool head. She said her current job has nothing to do with the cartoon resume.“Even if a company says in public that it wants to hire you, you still need to go through the recruitment process,” she said.“Whether you get the job or not still depends on your performance. There’s just no shortcut.”
