Passion for past times
Yao Siyu reads books that are a bit different — the traditional Chinese characters are printed vertically on the page and there is no punctuation. But the 22-year-old Chinese classics major at Renmin University of China considers reading these ancient texts a form of recreation.Many think that studying traditional Chinese literature is boring and useless, but Yao is full of passion for her subject.Fulfilling discoveryYao acquired her interest in Chinese classics when she was in elementary school. She read a lot books, ranging from contemporary novels to ancient poems. “I like poems the most, especially poems of Bian Zhilin, Wen Yiduo and Xu Zhimo. They are full of emotion and romanticism,” she says.Yao started to write poems herself in middle school because she had “so many thoughts and feelings to express through the rhythm of language”, she says. But the more she wrote, the more disappointed she felt — she saw a huge gap between herself and her favorite authors.Therefore, when it was time for the college entrance exams, Yao didn’t hesitate to apply for Chinese classics. “It’s the study of Chinese literature, history and philosophy. By studying it, I will gain a comprehensive understanding of traditional Chinese culture and a better understanding of my idols,” she says.Passion for the pastThanks to her solid foundation in Chinese literature, Yao was accepted by the School of Chinese Classics at Renmin University of China. There she made friends who had similar interests to her. In their leisure time, Yao and her friends spend hours practicing calligraphy and inscriptive writings. Even on dates with her boyfriend, Yao prefers visiting places like the Hall of Martial Valor in the Forbidden City. While it is a less popular place for other visitors, it is full of treasures for Yao because many ancient Chinese paintings are displayed there, giving her an opportunity to learn about ancient civilization.Many students can’t understand why Yao and her peers want to learn about such old things. For Yao it’s merely a matter of interest. “People think I’m a nerd, but I just love Chinese classics so much that I want to devote myself to it,” she says. “How other students see me is similar to how I see finance students. I will never understand their fascination for mathematical modeling.”Uncertain futureDespite her rich knowledge, Yao has less promising career prospects than her peers. According to data released by MyCOS Group, a consultancy, college students who major in science fields have better chances of earning a high income after graduation than students majoring in the arts. Science majors account for 78 percent of the top 50 well-paid majors, while arts majors represent the bottom 10.But Yao takes a different view. “Many people judge job prospects by material success, yet my major can bring much more than that,” says Yao. “It perfected my personality, way of thinking and attitude toward life. I gained self-fulfillment on the way.”
