Hot major, cool career
Li Meilin had an embarrassing experience a week ago at her middle school class reunion. The 22-year-old finance major at Tongji University found that while most of her peers who studied science and engineering had already landed a job, she was still sending out applications without getting any hits.“When my peers asked me about my job, I lowered my head to hide my reddening face. I regret choosing my major based merely on how popular it was,” she said.Li’s experience isn’t unique. There are quite a few hot college majors that attract a lot of applicants but continue to have dim career prospects. For students with these majors, professionals suggest they develop a comprehensive set of skills they can market to employers.Slim returnsLi’s major had a high entrance requirement. “In my year, there were so many students competing for limited spots that I had to score 100 points higher than usual just to make it into the school,” she said.However, despite its attractiveness to students, a finance major isn’t terribly appealing to employers. A Zhaopin.com report shows that in December 2013, there were over 3.5 million people searching for jobs in the finance field, while only 0.5 million positions were readily available.The same goes for other hot majors. A 2014 Zhaopin.com report shows that only 8.9 percent of bio-engineering graduates and 13.6 percent of computer science majors found jobs in their field of study.Fixed oddsThe reason for this is that many students flock to hot majors while their related industries have fixed recruiting demands, according to Huang Ruoshan, senior consultant at Zhaopin.com. “Under such circumstances, graduates with hot majors either need to fight for limited positions or find work in other fields. That’s why nurturing a comprehensive set of skills is critical to the health of the job marketplace,” she said.Huang’s beliefs are echoed by other human resources (HR) professionals. According to research done by Engma HR Co LTD, 55.6 percent of HR professionals say they value a graduate’s abilities over their specific area of expertise.Things like communication skills, innovative thought processes, strong ethics and good team management skills are highly valuable, says Liu Xiaolu, Engma’s marketing director. “We found that these comprehensive skills are more valued in state-owned enterprises than in private ones. But having these sort of abilities as well as a wide social network can help graduates leave a lasting impression on employers,” he said.“More importantly, many jobs that are around today won’t exist in five years, and many that will exist in five, 10, 20 years haven’t even been invented yet. The content of what’s taught in the classroom is changing, but what really matters are the skills a graduate brings to the table,” Huang said.
