Sport groups get head start
Jiang Chen’s WeChat (Weixin) conversation keeps updating with new messages and he finds it difficult to stop playing games on his computer. But eventually, with his female classmates calling on the app, he gets up and puts on his soccer boots.“If it wasn’t a group activity, I would kill another afternoon staring at my computer screen,” said the 20-year-old information major at Wuhan University of Technology.As the spring warmth approaches, many students are setting up sport groups. But reports show that physical activity among students on campus is still insufficient.“The majority of us know that we should go out and get some exercise, which is good for your health,” said Jiang. “But there are just too many distractions, like playing computer games, social networking, reading e-magazines, or simply posting a snapshot of the dormitory on weibo.”According to Changsha Evening News, a survey conducted across seven campuses in Hunan province shows that less than 10 percent of college students work out for more than an hour every day.Wu Jian, a researcher at the National Institute of Education Sciences, says it’s a worrisome trend.“From an early age on, the focus of school life is on studying,” said Wu. “It’s not that college students dislike sports, it’s because they’re not used to doing sports in their daily life.”According to his recent report on college students’ lifestyles, chatting online, playing games and watching TV dramas are the top three favorite activities on campus.In contrast, more than 70 percent of college students don’t do any sports at all. That’s where sport groups can help.Ye Silin joined a QQ group dedicated to playing badminton. According to the 21-year-old, it’s not just a random meet-up, but an organized effort.“We have invited a badminton coach and some veteran players to join the group,” said the English major at Changchun Normal University.“Participants can receive instructions from these experienced players as long as they chip in for renting the court. It’s a good deal.”For students like Zhang Qi, 19, who isn’t looking to become a competitive player, such a group with constant updates on where to play serves as a reminder to go out and leave the routine of dormitory life behind.“The best thing about the group is that you always know there will be someone somewhere ready to play with you,” said Zhang, an e-commerce major at Beijing Union University. “College life is getting busier now, so often when you want to play with your friends they’re not available.”Qin Shiyu, from the Student Affairs Department at Shanghai University, sees great potential in such campus groups, because peer pressure is the best motivation for students to do sports.“Nobody wants to be left out from group activities,” said Qin.“So when messages pop up on their smartphone, students feel the need to join in. Plus, it’s a good way of meeting people and making new friends.”
