Small steps lead to big accomplishments
Getting papers published in authoritative journals or writing a guide on doing scientific research — Zhang Bolin has accomplished tasks that other students seldom take on in college.But the 24-year-old graduate student at the College of Precision Instruments, Tientsin University, believes that, rather than being a star student, he’s grasped the right way to do things.Rough startWhen Zhang first entered university, he was still wet behind the ears. “I had the ambition and passion to make a difference, but I didn’t know how,” he says.He struggled in vain to find his way by being class leader and participating in various science and technology competitions. For months in his sophomore year, he felt stressed and frustrated because his college life met none of his expectations.“I was losing sleep,” he says. “Every night I would stare at the ceiling, thinking about a solution.”It wasn’t until he heard the story of the smart vehicle team at Shandong University that Zhang realized what he was doing wrong.Breakthrough lessonShandong University has one of the best smart vehicle teams among Chinese colleges. The team’s secret is passing on their winning work from generation to generation. “That allows new team members to innovate upon the already mature technology,” Zhang says.He therefore told himself that innovation is not about creating new things, but making small adjustments to improve things that already exist.It is the same with writing papers. “We can’t write something from nothing,” he says. “Instead, we should propose a better theory or practice based on existing achievements.”According to Zhang, his routine for writing a paper is finding a topic, doing lots of background research, and developing a challenging point. “Existing papers are published for a reason,” he says. “Learning from them can ensure I’m on the right track.”Simple approachHaving struggled himself, Zhang understands how students feel about scientific research. “They think of it as a complicated mystery,” he says. But Zhang believes it is students who make it so complicated. “Put simply, doing research is like using the television – there’s no need to figure out how it works, we only need to know how to use it,” he says.In the first chapter of his guide to scientific research, Zhang introduces Singlechip, a seemingly simple device that can be programmed to process certain functions. “Similar to watching television, there’s no need for students to grasp how Singlechip works. More important is understanding how to write the program so it processes the desired functions,” says Zhang.With such programming skills, students can do scientific research and even participate in science and technology competitions.
