Premier Wen paid tribute to teachers
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao meets with teacher representatives before a symposium at Beijing No. 35 Middle School in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 4, 2009. Ahead of China’s 25th Teacher’s Day, which falls on Sept. 10, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao has called on teachers across the country to enhance their teaching standards and do a good job.When the class began, Math teacher Xu Junjun announced that Premier Wen Jiabao was with them, the students turned round simultaneously and craned their necks and found Grandpa Wen, who greeted the marveling faces with a gentle smile.During the morning class that started 8:10, Wen was seen taking notes carefully. After the lesson, he sat with several students sharing his notes with them.He spent a total of four hours and five minutes till the music class ended with Class 5 of the 8th graders at Beijing No. 35 Middle School on Friday."It’s a memorable experience and I felt as if I had traveled back to my childhood," he said, "I love you all."Wen has been visiting teachers and students on every Teacher’s Day since 2003 when he took up the post."Sitting in on the class all the morning is my way of paying tribute to you teachers," he explained his visit later in a meeting with the faculty in the afternoon.Wen said that education is a lofty and honorable cause because the fate of the nation depends on it."The nation’s rise and fall rely on education, as only first-rate education can generate first-rate talents who in turn can build a first-rate nation," Wen said.China currently has about 16 million people working in educational institutions, including 12 million teachers in middle and primary schools.Chinese teachers have made great contribution to the country’s education and modernization through their hard work to cultivate generations of talented people over the years, Wen said."Anyone, no matter how successful they are, owes their growth to their teachers’ enlightenment and instruction, and thus should be a student forever before their teachers," he said.He also urged the teachers to be creative in improving their teaching skills, teaching contents and evaluation methods."Teachers are not sculptors, but what you are crafting is the most valuable work of art," Wen said.Tips：Blessing for teachersMy heartfelt thanks to you, dear teacher. On the voyage of life, you have kindled the light of hope for me. What you have done enriches my mind and broadens my view. On this day I honour you sincerely. Thank you for making learning not a dull thing but a great joy. The primary purpose of education is not to teach you to earn your bread, but to make every mouthful sweet.——James Angel A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops.——Henry Adams The man who can make hard things easy is the educator.Teacher, who educate children, deserve more honor than parents, who merely gave them birth; for the latter provided more life, while the former ensure a good life. Our beloved teacher, you are the spring shower that moistens our hearts. The love and care you have given us will encourage us to go through a long and arduous journey.
