Test training courses no miracle language solution
Already a graduate student from Xi’an Jiaotong University, Huang Weiming, 24, a finance major, feels like he is preparing for another college entrance exam this summer vacation. Learning English vocabulary, attending lectures and doing endless tests has become a daily routine. Huang is hoping to improve his English by taking a GRE training class.Like Huang, for many, taking English training courses to pass the GRE, TOEFL and IELTS exams is the first step to fulfilling their dream of studying abroad. There were 43 TOEFL exam sessions in 2013, a new record, and the number of Chinese TOEFL exam takers reached 300,000, according to the New Oriental training institution.So demand for English training courses is increasing. But such courses focus on teaching participants test-taking skills. How effective they are in improving students’ grades still depends on their overall language level. Therefore, the key for test-takers to pass the exams is to improve their comprehensive English ability.Even so, learning new test-taking skills can be helpful for some. For example, time management used to be a challenge for Huang. But on the course he learned the golden rule that each gap-filling task should be finished within one minute in order to complete the test.Also, these courses introduce students to the test format and teach them specific tactics to tackle different types of questions. For the reading part, Huang used to read the passages from beginning to end without taking any notes. But after taking the course, he now knows how to quickly find the right answers by marking the key words. “My efficiency and accuracy have both improved”, he says.“Our aim is to allow students to familiarize themselves with the exams in a short time,” Tang Wenxin, 22, a teacher at New Oriental, says. But to make full use of such courses, the importance of self-study can’t be ignored.Rather than test-taking skills, Zhang Yang, 23, a business administration major at Anhui Jianzhu University who once took a one-month TOEFL training course, says she benefited from the atmosphere most.“My teachers and classmates gave me helpful advice on writing personal statements and resumes. I know more about the application procedure for foreign universities now,” she says.Most training courses, however, don’t cater to individual needs as there are too many students. Sun Siyu, 21, an English major at Beijing University of Technology, is taking an IELTS training course with 100 students. “I often find the grammar knowledge we are taught is not what I need,” she says.Besides, the teachers constantly tell jokes to keep the students motivated, which affects the quality of the class. “Sometimes, we just laugh and laugh. There is not much valuable content,” Sun adds.Even if some students master test-taking skills, they still can’t get satisfactory grades. Zhang’s TOEFL training class aims to help students get a score of 100, but she only got 89.Wu Xia, 43, an English teacher at Tsinghua University, says that the key to getting good grades in the exams is to improve students’ comprehensive English ability. Test-taking skills only help students get more familiar with the exams and perform at their normal level.
