Students have their say
What proposal would you put forward if you were a National People’s Congress (NPC) or Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) member representing your peers at college? Xu Jingxi invites college students to air their views. Wu Weishan, a CPPCC member and head of the Art Institute of the Chinese National Academy of Arts, gives his comments. StudyWang Shiyi, 20a senior in Slovakian at Beijing Foreign Studies UniversityWe need to change the format in which the courses about politics, history and ethics are taught. No lecturing and paper tests. Students should do surveys, visit museums, take part in charity work and hand in reports for teachers to decide on their marks. Wu: It’s good to add outreach activities to courses in order to enhance students’ understanding. However, lecturing and paper tests are still necessary. Otherwise, students may lack a comprehensive idea of the course. It’s impossible for them to experience all the perspectives in outreach activities.Campus lifeFu Haiyang, 19 a freshman in molecular science and engineering at Nankai UniversityPeople often tell students how to save money. But I think we also need to learn how to manage the money we have saved. Universities should set up a compulsory course to teach us about investments. Wu: Many college students have no idea of the value of money because they don’t need to earn it themselves. So besides taking a course, students are encouraged to do part-time jobs.EmploymentYang Yufeng, 20a junior in engineering at Chongqing Jiaotong UniversityUniversities need to consult businesses to adapt course content to their changing needs. They should also build more training bases at companies to enable students to do field work for each practical course. Wu: College education is not intended to equip students with skills for a specific enterprise or industry only.Chai Mingjie, 22a sophomore in journalism at Taiyuan Normal UniversityUniversities seldom share job details. The government should build a website which collects all their job information. Wu: The supply of job information exceeds the demand in some universities while it’s the other way around in others. It’s a win-win solution for both enterprises and students if universities can share the information. 
