Homemaker’s art
Shao Luwei tied an apron around her waist and started to skin and gut the squid. Without hesitation she finished preparing a plate full of squids in less than three minutes, after which she cut the seafood into pieces and threw it into a pan with heated oil.It’s hard to imagine that such a skillful and flowing movement comes from a 22-year-old graduate. The accounting major from Yangzhou University has devoted herself to the homemaking industry, which is regarded by many as a promising but also challenging business.Well-educated homemakerSix months ago, Shao was still working as an intern in an accounting firm, wearing a formal suit and dealing with numbers every day. But before her graduation Shao realized that her interest is not in accounting, but in homemaking.“I used to baby-sit during vacations when I was in college,” she says. “I loved that job and my employers were always satisfied with me.” The memories of that rewarding experience made her abandon a career path that was closely related to her college major and enroll in a homemaking training program.“I had classes in etiquette, maternity nursing, cleaning and other aspects of homemaking,” she says. But she enjoyed the cooking course the most. “I knew nothing about cooking before, but now even my parents are surprised to see their little ‘princess’ cooking delicate food,” she says.Shao is the only college graduate in her homemaking training class, but she regards it as an advantage. “Apart from cooking and taking care of the employer, I can offer money management services, too,” she says.Uncertain futureDespite Shao’s optimism, many professionals in the homemaking industry are concerned about college graduates’ passion for homemaking.“Well-educated homemakers seldom stay in this industry for long,” says Xia Jun, founder of Aijun Home Service based in Shanghai. “Many university graduates who work as homemakers soon look for another job because they only regard this job as a springboard.”Zhou Wen, managing director of Zhengxianghe homemaking company in Guangzhou, believes that stereotypes held by parents and the wider society prevent college graduates from settling down in the homemaking industry. “Many parents can’t accept their child being a homemaker,” she says. “They tend to associate the job of being a homemaker with a nanny who only takes care of a child.”High requirements and demandIn fact, homemaking requires much more than doing simple chores. According to Wang Jianhua, secretary general of Chongqing Home Service Association, being a professional homemaker is not as easy as many people think. “According to national standards, homemakers are divided into primary, intermediate and senior levels. Each level of homemaker should meet certain requirements,” he says.In order to obtain a senior level certificate, one must have at least a higher education and three years of homemaking experience. Besides, a comprehensive knowledge of household management, social etiquette, education and domestic entertainment is needed.These high requirements mean there is a huge demand in the market, with wealthy and foreign families looking for senior homemakers. Take Guangzhou as an example. Data released by the investigation team of Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference Guangzhou Committee on the homemaking industry shows that 20 percent of families in Guangzhou need senior homemakers, but only 14.6 percent of local homemakers meet the requirements.Under these circumstances, Shao Luwei believes that she will seize the opportunity. “I think homemaking is a promising industry,” she says. “I will start from the primary level and gradually move up toward the senior level. My ultimate goal is to open a homemaking company of my own.”
