Global citizen practice
MANY students, in their job search, are looking locally, but some, in contrast, are already thinking of flying across the continent or even overseas just for an internship. Imagine working with different nationalities, talking in different languages. An overseas internship seems to mean fancy brand, a "global citizen". It sounds exciting, no doubt about it. But it can also be expensive and challenging, especially when an intern has to pay for everything. So, how do you approach it? "The most important thing is to establish clear goals before you go," said Yu Quyue, with AIESEC, an overseas exchange organization. "If you just want to add some shine to your resume, or taste the exotic life, it’s not worth the cost. However, when it’s good, it can be a rare and immensely beneficial experience."Here, 21st Century talks with some students who have returned from overseas internship experiences, which they go through various programs, and which turned out to be successful:University programsBenefits: arranged through school cooperative program or organizations, often no conflict with academic schedule; can come with a basic salary.Things to note: no fancy lifestyle or work conditions; limited range of positions. Sun Ran, 21, a senior at Capital Normal University, had a summer job paying seven dollars an hour at Jurassic Park, Universal Studio, Orlando, Florida, US, two years ago. She got it from a university bulletin board, and registered through her teacher: "Instead of some boring office work, I wanted to experience something that I’d never see after I graduate."Outside of work, she got to travel, but she still had to worry about safety: "I would never go alone or come back late. I was solely responsible for myself." AIESEC and IAESTE exchange programs Benefits: openings in both developed and developing countries, with companies and NGOsThings to note: usually no pay; possibly for a long period; you need to volunteer first.Hu Congli, 26, a Tsinghua University grad, had a different experience, with AIESEC: He spent one and half months in Jaipur, India, helping a local NGO get child workers to leave the slums for an education in charity schools. Living costs were relatively low.He thinks this was a rich experience that can be used anytime, like applying for studying abroad.AgenciesBenefits: good networking with multinational companies; accommodation and trips are all arranged for you. Things to note: be sure to choose a reliable company; costs are relatively high. Liang Yuan, 22, a recent University of International Business and Economics grad, got an internship at the wealth management department of Merrill Lynch, the financial institution, in Los Angeles, through an agency. She said she was greatly encouraged to think creatively and take the initiative in work. "I was surprised that I was always invited to give my own opinion at formal meetings, even as an intern," Liang remembers. "For them, a bad idea is better than no idea at all." 
