How to dress like a real man
While a man’s typical collegiate wardrobe consists of blue jeans, collarless T-shirts, flip flops, hoodies and sneakers, there are occasions that require college boys to dress up a bit and show they’re ready for the real world.So boys, have a look at the following list of clothing items that every college man needs in order to project the image of a put-together young man.A tailored suitUntil you graduate from college, there aren’t many occasions to wear suits. But this doesn’t mean you don’t need one. Let’s say you land an interview for your dream internship or you need to attend an honors ceremony. You’ll want to look your best and show that you want to be taken seriously.A good suit doesn’t have to be expensive. Even a cheap suit can look good if it fits well. Stick with single-breasted suits with two or three buttons. While black is always the safest option, gray and navy blue are also good choices.A white button-up shirtInvesting in a crisp, white dress shirt is something you’ll never regret. It can be paired with blue jeans for an effortlessly stylish look. There are also occasions when a suit would be too formal but you still want to put your best foot forward. For those occasions, a white dress shirt will do the trick. Together with a pair of dark pants, this garment will exude professionalism when you’re giving a class presentation, for example.A pair of dark jeansWe know how much college guys are into jeans. They’re comfortable, convenient, and go well with almost everything from polo shirts and hoodies to blazers. But having at least one dark-rinsed pair of denim in your closet is an even safer bet. Dark jeans are more formal than light blue jeans. They can be worn not only to class, but also to dinners or semi-formal events without raising any eyebrows.As for the style of dark jeans, “slim” and “straight” are both fine. But make sure you stay away from the baggy ones.A pair of lace-up dress shoesTo look like a future leader from head to toe, a good pair of lace-up dress shoes is another clothing piece you should invest in. Just like the tailored suit, they’re not needed for most of your college days, but they’ll carry you through the most important events of those years.When it comes to a pair of dress shoes, it’s all right to spend more than you would normally feel comfortable spending on a pair of shoes. A well-made pair will last for your entire college experience and far beyond that.
