Chinese youth encouraged
It is widely acknowledged that the future of a country lies in its youth. That’s why the Chinese government set a plan to guide its youth toward better development.The Middle- and Long-term Youth Development Plan (2016-2025) was released on April 13, reported Xinhua News Agency. In the plan, “youth” refers to those aged from 14 to 35.It sets a general goal of establishing a “youth development policy system and work mechanism (机制)” by 2020 and improving the system by 2025.“The modern youth, who come from the single-child and internet generation, are facing new issues from marriage to education to retirement,” Deng Xiquan, director of the China Youth and Children Research Center’s Youth Research Institute, told Xinhua. “They will need new policies to support their ever-changing needs.”The plan covers 10 areas such as education, healthcare, employment and culture. Here, TEENS has picked out two of these. Let’s take a look.EducationThe plan sets goals requiring an average of more than 13.5 years of education for youth and a higher education enrollment (入学) rate of over 50 percent within 10 years.The government will also narrow the educational gap across the country, as rural areas still lag behind (落后) in education. For example, Gansu province alone was home to over 3,700 schools with no more than ten students each, reported Xinhua.“Don’t let the kids lose at the starting line,” said President Xi Jinping when he visited a primary school in Yan’an, Shaanxi province, on Feb 14, 2015. He stressed the importance of education, noting (提到) it is the key to development in poor areas.HealthcareThe plan aims for 90 percent of youth to meet physical standards, and to provide more access to mental and physical care. It also emphasizes physical education and extracurricular (课外的) exercise, with a particular focus on soccer. It’s hoped that every young person will play at least one sport.This echoes (和.....相呼应) the country’s previous efforts to promote students’ health. In 2011, the Ministry of Education launched (开始) a nutrition improvement initiative (倡议) for rural students of compulsory education years.This year, the Ministry of Education also plans to increase the number of specialist soccer schools to 20,000, according to Xinhua. About 120 foreign soccer experts will be invited to teach soccer school students, said the report.It’s hoped that this new plan will promote the political, professional and personal qualities of China’s young people.“This is the first time central authorities have released a development plan specifically for China’s youth,” said Deng. “It is an important milestone in the country’s youth development projects.”
