Breaking free from Europe
“We’re in uncharted territory.” That is what an aide working in UK Prime Minister David Cameron’s office told reporters after the results of a British referendum on European Union (EU) membership came out on June 24.The UK’s historic vote to exit the EU has left people in shock and stirred anxiety across the globe. Even if the proceedings won’t be finalized for another two years, the impacts have already begun to show.For starters, if not for “Brexit”, the English soccer team’s defeat in the Euro Cup on June 28 might not have been so bitter. But soccer fans mocked the fact that England was being dumped by Europe twice in one week – in the process, losing both its prime minister and national soccer team manager. That England met defeat at the hands of Iceland was also a source of humor.“The beautiful irony. #England knocked out of #Euro2016 by country not even in the EU! Maybe that’s why they pressed the #Brexit button,” joked one Twitter user.The British economy faces more serious effects. The vote created the biggest global financial shock since the 2008 economic crisis. The pound suffered its most dramatic one-day fall in history, plunging more than 10 percent against the dollar to hit levels last seen in 1985. London might lose its status as a global financial capital.Quitting the EU could also cost the UK access to the EU’s trade barrier-free single market and means that it must seek new trade accords with countries around the world, Reuters reports. US President Barack Obama says the UK would be at the “back of a queue” for a US pact.The referendum’s surprising results show a division in British society between the older generation – who backed “Brexit” because they believed they saw no benefits from UK’s ethnic diversity and free-market economy – and the younger generation, who favor globalization and the border-free policy.China Daily’s UK editor Jon Lowe argues that a second, equally fundamental split was revealed in the voting results. He says there’s a gap between what Britons thought they were and what they really are.“Far from being a nation of modern, sophisticated, multicultural go-getters, it turns out we are still a country of beer-swilling bumpkins with a distaste for foreigners and a deep mistrust of European powers,” Lowe wrote.
