Kate keeps the world waiting for royal baby
Some journalists have been positioned outside St. Mary’s Hospital in west London for a long time, waiting for signs that Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, is ready to deliver the baby who will be third in line to the throne. Earlier this month, they resorted to interviewing each other: the British are interviewing the Americans, the Japanese interviewed the Canadian, and the Canadian interviewed the Germans.Camera crews and photographers have set up tripods and step-ladders along the curb, using tape to mark off the spots they’ve secured. Anxious not to miss the world’s first glimpse of the royal baby, they wait, day and night, to the amusement of many curious locals who work at or near the hospital.“There are people everywhere. I don’t know what they are doing, but (they’re here) all the time, anytime — morning and night,” said Lea Fortunato, a researcher at Imperial College London’s Faculty of Medicine, next door to the hospital. The reporters, she said, are there when she arrives for work at 9:30 a.m. and there when she leaves at 6:30 p.m.“They started camping last week. I didn’t think they would camp!” added Million Moyo, a deputy manager in the emergency ward of St. Mary’s. “Most people (at work) are really intrigued.”The scene inside the barricades keeping the media off the street indicated that the journalists may be getting a little bit stir crazy. Days ago, one camera operator at American network NBC set up a press-only betting pool where, for £5 a bid, reporters could make their best guesses as to whether the royal baby will be a boy or a girl, and the day and time it will arrive.Still bored, some attached bright neon “for sale” tags to each of the ladders photographers had left behind overnight. “Post Partum Ladder Sale,” read one tag. “Will Swap for a Mars Bar,” read another.Freelance photographer Andrew Cowie, who has been coming to the hospital since July 8, “taking photos of ladders” and soaking up the summer sun. “I guess we’re here just in case she walks through the front doors,” he said, “which is very unlikely.”Little is known about the baby — its sex has remained a secret, and no name has been announced. Reporters don’t know whether Kate will enter the Lindo Wing, where Prince William was born 31 years ago, from the front doors, side doors, or by helicopter, as some tabloids have suggested.“It’s all a bit dull,” said Cowie, who has done similar stake-outs when the often-ill Prince Philip had gone to hospital over the years, and when the Duchess was diagnosed with severe morning sickness last December. “I’ve done it, but not to this scale,” he said. “There’s a lot more of us here.”
