Clamping down on ads
If you search for words like “best”, “highest”, and “state-level” on the e-commerce service Taobao, you now find nothing more than a pumpkin-headed mascot gushing tears and a message saying the results cannot be displayed “due to law restrictions”.The message refers to China’s new advertising law, which was put into effect on Sept 1. Experts say it will reshape advertising in China.The updated law is regarded as the strictest in history since it bans lies and exaggeration in all forms of advertisement. It’s not a new rule, but previously it wasn’t implemented strictly. The old law also didn’t specify what counts as a violation. Now advertisers have clearly defined rules.Before it was amended, Chinese advertising law had been in place for 20 years. But marketing evolved dramatically over the two decades, especially with the arrival of the Internet. Web services changed the landscape of advertising, according to Liu Xingliang, director of the market research agency Data Center of China Internet（DCCI）.“Before the Internet took off, there weren’t such things as pop-up ads. But they have become one of the most important forms of advertising since then. It’s almost impossible for consumers to avoid or close them,” he told Beijing Times.With the revised advertising law, consumers now are able to skip pop-up ads. This is a reflection of “the government’s determination to protect consumers’ right,” said Liu Junhai, a professor of law at Renmin University of China.“More importantly, the new law emphasizes its implementation, levying a fine between 200,000 and 1 million yuan for violations,” he said.Such a heavy fine is an especially big deal for small businesses, according to Li Junhui, a special researcher from the Intellectual Property Research Center at the China University of Political Science and Law.“Most of them advertise on WeChat, which means their advertising costs are low. Under such circumstances, more than 200,000 yuan is a huge amount,” he said.Endorsers bewareApart from restrictions on superlatives and methods of online advertising, the new law also governs how brands can use celebrity endorsers.After shooting to fame through Hunan TV’s “Dad, Where Are We Going?” (《爸爸去哪儿》), child stars on the show have transformed into celebrity spokespeople for milk, travel and educational products. However, under the amended law, children under age 10 cannot endorse products at all.Moreover, celebrity endorsers can be held responsible for false claims in ads. They can only recommend products that they’ve used themselves.Young people like Tang Qi, a 22-year-old advertising student from Xiamen University, applauded the reforms.“Having celebrities in advertisements certainly draws consumers’ attention. Show Lo (罗志祥) and Jiro Wang (汪东城) particularly got my attention when they endorsed sanitary pads. But consumers are getting skeptical of these tactics. The new law came right at a time when advertisers need to rethink the messages they want to send to the consumers,” she said.
