Speeches too similar
Perhaps the most famous moment of last week’s Republican National Convention in the US had nothing to do with the ideas of the *eccentric nominee Donald Trump. Everyone was talking about his wife Melania Trump’s speech on July 18 – and not for the right reasons. It quickly became clear that it was very possible that she had stolen parts of her speech from a 2008 one by First Lady Michelle Obama.Passages in the speech were undeniably very similar to the 2008 speech. For example, Melania Trump said, “We want our children in this nation to know that the only limit to your achievements is the strength of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.” In 2008, Michelle Obama said, “We want our children – and all children in this nation – to know that the only limit to the height of your achievements is the reach of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.”Campaign disagreesThe speech led to disagreements in Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, according to The New York Times. Some officials admitted that the passages in the speech were taken from Obama’s, while others said that nothing unusual had happened.Paul Manafort, Trump’s campaign chairman, described it as “a great speech” and said at a morning convention briefing that “obviously Michelle Obama feels very similar *sentiments toward her family”.“This is once again an example of, when a woman threatens Hillary Clinton, she seeks to *demean her and take her down,” Manafort added on CNN.However, Sam Clovis, who helped Trump draft of some of his speeches, admitted that Melania Trump used someone else’s words. “I’m sure ... the person who was helping write this put something in there, and there was probably an unfortunate *oversight – and certainly Melania didn’t have anything to do with it,” the Trump campaign co-chairman said in an interview on MSNBC.Staff unawareTwo *anonymous people who knew about the process told The New York Times that Jared Kushner, Donald Trump’s son-in-law, had asked for a draft of the speech from the two speechwriters responsible for crafting it.Matthew Scully and John McConnell, who had worked together as speechwriters for George W Bush, wrote a draft of Melania Trump’s speech in June, sending it to the campaign for review about a month ago.The pair did not hear back from the campaign until about 10 days before the speech, according to one person familiar with the conversation, when they were told that the text had been shortened. Melania Trump then worked with a person from within the Trump organization to make big changes to its content. The speech-writing pair *apparently didn’t know about the controversial additions until the nominee’s wife delivered her address on Monday night, causing a media storm.
