Historic first meeting
On Nov 7, Singapore witnessed the moment when Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou met and turned a historic page in cross-Straits relations, Xinhua reported.It was the first ever meeting between leaders of the two sides of the Taiwan Straits since 1949. They met in the full capacity of their official positions and shook hands for more than a minute.Official titles were carefully avoided. They were simply “Mr Xi” and “Mr Ma” to each other. They signed no agreement and released no joint statement, according to China Daily.“It’s historic, because it’s the first, but I would not go as far as to say that it was very important, because it engaged in generalities. No specific issues were addressed, no promises were made that we know of,” J. Michael Cole, a fellow at the University of Nottingham’s China Policy Institute, told China Daily.However, the meeting still matters a lot to the cross-Straits relations. “The meeting itself was a big achievement,” said Ei Sun Oh, a senior researcher at Singapore Nanyang Technological University. “It will lay a solid foundation for the future peaceful development of cross-Straits relations.”During the meeting, the two leaders acknowledged major achievements made in the peaceful development of cross-Straits relations since 2008. Both sides agreed to consolidate common political ground, promote peaceful development of cross-Straits relations and continue to stick to the 1992 Consensus.The 1992 Consensus is extremely important in cross-Straits relations. “The peaceful development of cross-Straits relations over the past seven years lies in adhering to the 1992 Consensus and opposing Taiwan independence,” Xi was quoted by Zhang Zhijun, the mainland’s Taiwan affairs chief, as saying at the closed-door meeting.The 1992 Consensus was reached in November 1992. The consensus is that “both sides of the Taiwan Straits adhere to the ‘one-China’ principle” while reserving the right for each side to explain the political content of “one-China”.“Though many problems remain unsolved across the Straits, there are no insurmountable hurdles so long as the two sides adopt dialogue and consultation on an equal footing under the one-China principle,” Zhang said in a statement.
