Britain’s finest on display
Grasping the essence of an old culture like Britain’s is always hard. It’s even more difficult for foreigners who speak a different language. But Chinese people have a leg up, as the two countries prepare for a “golden decade” of cultural exchange.President Xi Jinping’s visit to the UK, from Oct 19 to 23, is the first state visit by a Chinese president since 2005. It’s expected to be a fruitful event. Xi leads a 150-member business delegation, with billions of pounds of investment planned.“When people exchange goods, they exchange ideas. Commerce and culture go hand in hand,” British Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne and British Museum director Neil MacGregor wrote in a joint piece on The Telegraph. “So as the UK and China broaden and develop their commercial ties, it’s natural that the cultural links between the two countries should also grow closer and stronger.”The British government has gone to great lengths to make sure the country’s most significant cultural assets are on display.Sharing cultureThe efforts begin with Xi’s state visit itinerary. He is scheduled to travel in a carriage to meet the royal family at the Buckingham Palace. He’s set to attend a state banquet and visit the Manchester City Football Club.Xi is also headed to the English countryside, to join British Prime Minister David Cameron at his countryside residence Chequers Court for talks and dinner. As British writer Jeremy Paxman once said, “The English mind kept alive the idea that the soul of England lay in the countryside”.While such experiences are reserved only for world leaders, the UK has also designed a tourism package for ordinary people in China.During his visit to China in late September, George Osborne announced tourism initiatives backed by 6 million pounds of government grants.Under the initiatives, some of UK’s pre-eminent institutions, including the British Museum, the British Library and the Tate, will share objects and exhibitions with China. Cultural icons like Sherlock Holmes will be introduced to Chinese audiences, along with plays by Shakespeare and the Royal Opera House.“The classical repertoire sits very comfortably with technology and cultural innovation. It draws on the best of history, with the best of forward thinking,” said Nick Marchand, who is the director of arts and creative industries and the first secretary of culture, at the Cultural and Education Section of the British Embassy.“There’s an economic goal behind this [cultural exchange],” wrote the joint piece by Osborne and MacGregor. “Ultimately, however, it’s about more than pounds and renminbi. It’s in our literature, our theater, our paintings and our museums, that we express who we are as a country.
