Xi’s words of inspiration
Every day, President Xi Jinping works hard to drive the rejuvenationof China, but he still takes time to share his experiences and wisdom with the country’s young people. From forming a healthy lifestyle to keeping a positive attitude toward life, his wise words are like a lighthouse that guides China’s youth on the right path to personal growth. Here are seven pieces of advice he has given to Chinese youth on different occasions. Let’s take a look.Refine professional skillsThe youth must refine their professional skills. Study is the ladder of progress and practice is the way to improve capability. Quality and capability of the youth are directly linked to the course of realizing the Chinese Dream. (May 4, 2013)The buttons of lifeLiving one’s life is like buttoning up one’s jacket. If the first button is not fastened correctly, the rest will never find their rightful place. The buttons of life should be fastened well from the very beginning. (May 4, 2014)Young people should avoid staying up lateI was so eager to do my job well but fell ill quite often. The reason? I always burnt the midnight oil. Later, I came to realize that I couldn’t work like this anymore. One has to be fully aware that one cannot finish all the work at a time, however enthusiastic one may be about the job. (Jan 12, 2015)Happiness does not fall from the skyThe future is encouraging and inspiring. But happiness does not fall from the sky. We shall establish a spirit to prevail, and continue to immerse ourselves in hard work. (Dec 31, 2015)Honest workThe whole society should vigorously promote the spirit of hard work, encouraging people to realize their dreams and change their fate through honest work, while opposing negative thoughts such as profiting from other people’s work, opportunism and indulging in pleasure and comfort. (April 26, 2016)Roll up our sleeves to work harderAs the saying goes, “success comes to those who share in one purpose”. As long as our 1.3 billion-plus people are pulled together for a common cause, as long as the Party stands together with the people and we roll up our sleeves to work harder, we will surely succeed in a Long March of our generation. (Dec 31, 2016)Not slack in prosperity and not lose faith in adversityDuring one’s growth and endeavor, the young may gain success and joy, but may also face difficulties and pressure. One should treat the success and failure at the moment with a correct attitude, not slack in prosperity and not lose faith in adversity. One should consider both the success and failure as wealth in life instead of burdens. (May 3, 2017)
