President of Twitter
A few days before Donald Trump launched his Twitter attack threatening to cancel Boeing’s Air Force One contract, he let loose on American companies that employ the services of foreign factories. They will be punished, he typed. “There will be a tax on our soon to be strong border of 35 percent for these companies.”That was on the morning of Dec 4 at 5:57 am.Hours earlier, Trump tweeted his thoughts on Saturday Night Live, which featured Alec Baldwin’s devastating parody of the next president. Trump was not amused, and evidently felt the nation should know his *umbrage. “Just tried watching Saturday Night Live - unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin *impersonation just can’t get any worse. Sad.”There hasn’t been a president in our memory like Trump: unrestrained and *impetuous - a font of ideas and unafraid to express whatever pops into his head. That combination, face it, helped win the presidency because it announced that he intends to shake up the country. In his unvarnished tweets, supporters see a champion, while all others see trouble. Words, especially those communicated by a soon-to-be president, have consequences.The Boeing tweet came out of the blue. At 7:52 am Tuesday Trump declared: “Boeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order!”That was it, just the one tweet. There was no context, but there was immediate reaction: Traders dumped Boeing shares, causing a temporary 1 percent drop in the Chicago-based company’s valuation. Industry experts were perplexed.In his interview with Today’s Matt Lauer on Dec 7, Trump addressed the 35 percent tax threat, saying, “I believe in free trade, but I don’t believe in stupid trade.” He *decreed that companies aren’t going to be allowed to fire workers, move operations out of the country and then be allowed to import their products without “*retribution.”In Washington, Republican leaders backed away from Trump’s idea because, well, it’s *ludicrous. Presidents can’t target individual companies for punishment, and Congress won’t *handcuff the free market system to oblige a *predawn tweet.There’s been the suggestion that someone should take away Trump’s smartphone and let the communications professionals run his Twitter account, although it’s not expected that he’ll take up that advice. He’s a *canny marketer who sees the power of social media to reach the American public without the news media’s filter. Twitter, he told Lauer, “is a modern-day form of communication.” He’s right. One long-ago president was the first to embrace radio (it was Calvin Coolidge), and Trump is on his way to becoming the first true social media president.That doesn’t mean he should be free to tweet, or speak, without *repercussions or media scrutiny – he will still be held accountable. Since Election Day, he’s toned down his most *incendiary rhetoric, but he’s still rash and reckless. Tweeting freestyle verse on the economy caused a scare in the boardrooms of the Fortune 500, for example, but what happens after *inauguration day when Trump picks his first Twitter fight with a foreign leader?Presidents command attention, and Trump will use his digital *podium, but in the end he is no different than anyone else on Twitter. He’s free to say what he wants, but he has to continually earn the respect of followers.
