Author honored on world stage
Every now and then, Chinese writers are short-listed for international recognition. But seldom do they win.One of those elusive awards is the Hans Christian Andersen Prize, the highest international honor that can be given to an author and an illustrator of children’s books. No Chinese writer had ever won it, until April 4, when 62-year-old Cao Wenxuan received the prize. Cao, a professor of Chinese literature at Peking University, received the honor at the Bologna Children’s Book Fair in Italy.Patricia Aldana, this year’s president of Hans Christian Andersen Prize jury, applauded Cao’s “deeply humanistic” books. These novels acknowledge that life can be tragic for children, and that redemption can be found in human kindness.Instilling children with good virtues for the sake of humankind is something that Cao stresses. In an interview with the Zhengzhou Evening News, he said, “It’s time for us to alter our understanding of reading. Books shouldn’t bring only joy to young readers, but also sensations, either through comedy or tragedy.”That feature of his works has touched many adults too. “The unanimous choice of the jury, Cao writes beautifully about the complex lives of children facing great challenges,” said Aldana, announcing the winner of the author award.In the wake of his victory, Cao credited good translation for bringing attention to his work. Chinese children’s literature could gain high recognition in the world if it were properly translated in a style that could be easily understood, he told Xinhua News Agency.Other writers, including Jin Bo, have also blamed poor translation as the reason why Chinese literature fails to get international acknowledgment. Jin was nominated for the Hans Christian Andersen Prize in 1992, but at that time, he had to translate, in a rush, several paragraphs from his book to give to the jury. “On one hand, the jury has little knowledge of Chinese authors. On the other hand, it is we ourselves who didn’t introduce our work and promote ourselves enough,” he said in a seminar in 2013.
