Decades-old case returns to public eye
An unsolved case of poisoning nearly two decades old has hit the headlines again after a petition posted on the White House website named a suspect and called for her to be extradited to China.The petition, which has collected more than 130,000 signatures in the "We the People" section of the site, alleged that that 39-year-old Sun Wei was the perpetrator of the incident and even claimed she is living in the United States illegally because she gained entry to the country via a fraudulent marriage. The petition offered no evidence to back up the claims.However, one comment - "The US government should deport Sun!" - was representative of the feverish mood of many petitioners.The story began in 1994 when Zhu Ling, a 21-year-old student at Tsinghua University in Beijing, was poisoned with the heavy metal thallium.Although her life was saved, Zhu was left with serious neurological damage and permanent physical impairment.Once a talented student with promising future, Zhu now is paralyzed and practically blind.Although no evidence has ever been presented publicly and no charges brought, online speculation suggested that Sun, one of Zhu’s roommates, was behind the incident. More startlingly, there have been claims that she wasn’t charged with the crime because a number of her relatives were powerful officials. Again, no evidence has been produced that this was the case.Beijing police spent four years investigating the incident. Although Sun was questioned as part of the investigation, the police took no further action. By 1999, the police concluded that forensic evidence from the scene had deteriorated to the point where a conviction would be impossible.Uneasy reactionsThe White House petition quickly drew comments from Chinese citizens and expatriates. However, the timing and tenor of the recent accusations against Sun have caused unease.Zhang Jie, Zhu Ling’s lawyer and a senior partner at Beijing Litian Law Office, said that although he appreciated the sincerity of the opinions aired, posting a petition on the website of a foreign government is not the right way to seek help."Zhu Ling’s case is still under the provenance of Chinese law, and I object to the use of these channels to ask a foreign power to intervene in Chinese domestic justice," he said.The rumor that Sun comes from the family of a senior official can be seen as a manifestation of public anger against the wealthy and privileged, according to Lin Guirui, a psychology professor at the Capital Normal University.Zheng Zaisuo, a senior lawyer at Zhong Yin Law Firm in Beijing, said the petition and subsequent furor illustrated that the power of social media is a double-edged sword. It drew public attention to Zhu’s case, which had been overlooked for nearly two decades, but at the same time stirred up irrational emotions."Online bulletin board sites and weibo (social networking sites) are flooded with rumors, angry comments and curses," he said. "These angry people think they are protecting one person’s rights, but they may be harming another’s rights at the same time. "A personal statementDespite the time lag, online interest in Zhu’s case has never quite abated. The issue was reignited by the Fudan poisoning tragedy.On Dec 30, 2005, 10 years after the incident, Sun posted a message titled "Sun Wei’s statement: Refuting the rumor that I poisoned my roommate Zhu Ling" on the forum of one of China’s biggest bulletin board sites, Tianya. The post gained 1.5 million hits and many readers left comments.On April 18, Sun posted a second, much shorter statement, saying that she lived a lonely but contented life and cared little about either positive or negative public opinion. The post received more than 6 million hits and 225,000 comments."I understand why people are so angry about this case. Many think it confirms a widespread belief that officials are above the law," said Zheng Zaisuo, referring to the allegations of an official coverup. "But people need to be rational. What we need is a rigorous legal system and an objective investigation, not mob revenge against Sun."
