Clinton’s health quizzed
US Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton had to be held up by three aides before she appeared to stumble off a curb and was helped into a van, after making a hurried exit from a 9/11 anniversary ceremony on Sept 9.Several hours later, her campaign revealed she had been diagnosed with *pneumonia and advised to rest. The incident compounds an already difficult stretch for Clinton as the presidential race enters its final laps. Despite Republican opponent Donald Trump’s numerous missteps, the competition remains close but many Americans view Clinton as dishonest and untrustworthy.And now the US presidential hopeful is sure to face new questions over whether she’s physically fit enough to run the country. In 2012, Clinton suffered a concussion following a fall at home. This later led to temporary double vision and discovery of a blood *clot.Trump and his supporters have been reviving questions about the *concussion and questioning Clinton’s stamina.They are not alone in the close watch on Clinton’s health. According to the Wall Street Journal, the US public has always had an interest in the medical status of potential presidents. In 1995, the then-72-year-old Republican front runner and eventual nominee Bob Dole was asked by Time magazine to answer a question widely raised by the public: “Is he too old to be president?” In early 2008, several stories also emerged in the media suggesting that Arizona Republican John McCain, who was 71 at the time, may have been too “damaged” for the presidency after years of torture during the Vietnam War, as well as surviving *bouts of cancer.Clinton, 68, is the oldest nominee in her party’s history. Trump, 70, would be the oldest president ever sworn into office if he wins. “Both have reached an age when medical risks multiply, though plenty of younger presidents have suffered health trouble: John F. Kennedy in his early 40s had Addison’s disease, which he hid from the public,” read a Wall Street Journal opinion piece.
