Missed opportunity
Anyone expecting a knockout blow, or a debate that would *substantially change the election’s *trajectory, was probably disappointed on the night of Sept 26. It was more of the familiar. Few Americans are *ecstatic over the prospect of either outcome in November’s election, and the next day did nothing to change that.As expected, Hillary Clinton showcased an experienced insider’s command of details. Donald Trump maintained his image as an outsider seeking to reform the executive branch, which he considers *dysfunctional, with a business perspective on economics, jobs and deals.Clinton *berated Trump for declining to disclose his tax returns, saying he had something to hide. It’s hard to imagine a viewer who wasn’t thinking about the 33,000 destroyed emails. What is she trying to hide?This was Trump’s opportunity to *pounce. He mentioned the emails, but did not put Clinton on the ropes. He would have been justified in demanding an answer. What was in the emails? Why did she hide and destroy them? Clinton has mostly avoided questions and answers in open forums for most of the past year. Trump had the rare opportunity to cross-examine her, but he did not.But Trump put Hillary on the defensive by blaming her for supporting the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). She ended up saying she was for it before she was against it, once the details were better known. Trump countered, quoting Clinton calling TPP “The Gold Standard.” It was one of a handful of points he scored, in a debate Clinton otherwise controlled.Trump talked about restoring law and order, and accurately cited a rising murder rate in New York after the city ended a successful “stop and frisk” program Clinton and others consider *unconstitutional. While talking crime and justice, Clinton talked about race determining too much in the US, and spoke *eloquently about the need for more equal protection and racial equality.Expectations were low coming into this debate. Hillary’s fiercest opponents hoped she might collapse on stage. Trump’s opponents hoped he would make a *blunder for the ages, ending all debate as to whether he can be presidential. There were no fireworks, no historic *flubs, no timeless quotes.On *demeanor, poise, confidence and depth, Clinton won the night. But nothing she did, or could have done, changes an insider’s status a lot of prospective voters do not want. After 90-plus minutes, Americans learned nothing new about either embattled candidate.
