Inspired to join party
Liangjiahe village, a community of 120 homes scattered along a dry riverbed on the Loess Plateau in Yan’an, Shaanxi province, saw President Xi Jinping joining the Communist Party of China (CPC) at the age of 20. It was in this village during his youth that Xi began his journey down the glorious path of serving the people.In the past 40 years, more talented young people have followed Xi’s steps to join the Party and serve society. Figures from the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee show that there were nearly 13.8 million Party members under the age of 30 by the end of 2015 in China, including 2 million students. So why do they join the Party at such a young age, and what contributions are they making? Below, TEENS has invited three people to share what the CPC means to them.KerbezJenges, 20, student at Beijing Language and Culture UniversityI grew up in a traditional Kazakh family in Fukang city in Xinjiang. Though my parents are farmers, they always use plain yet sincere words to praise our Party and their happy life after 1949.I headed to Beijing for further studies at the age of 18. Trips to historical sites such as Lugou Bridge and the National Museum of China helped me clearly understand that under the leadership of the CPC, China has made great achievements in economic and social development. I solemnly submitted my applicationletter to my school’s Party Committee and was approved as a probationary member this year.In summer last year, a village in my hometown was hit by a flood. But thanks to the help of the Party and the government, all the villagers were moved to new houses before the cold winter arrived. As a member of the Party, hearing such news always fills with me pride.Wang Xingyu, 25, social entrepreneur from ShanghaiContinuous rainfall caused the worst ever flooding in China’s southern regions in 1998. Torrents and landslides hit many people’s lives. As a 6-year-old boy at the time, what impressed me most was seeing the heroes who fought against the flood.Hoping to become like them, I became a probationary member of the CPC in my senior year of high school and promised to dedicate my life to repaying society. After finishing my postgraduate studies at New York University, I went back to my motherland. But Ididn’t choose to stay in my hometown of Shanghai. Instead, I went to Hunan and set up a social enterprise called Village Note, focusing on introducing students to poverty-stricken regions to learn about rural life.Life in rural areas is not so comfortable without modern conveniences. When I feel depressed and tired, I always recall the Party oath I swore to uphold – to serve the people wholeheartedly, and to dedicate my whole life to the realization of communism.Li Rongcheng, 18, student at Shenyang No 2 High SchoolIn the main streets of Shenyang stand some red telephone booths, through which people can speak their minds directly to the Party. But rather than just share my troubles, I’d like to become a Party member myself so I can help others.This idea has lingered in my mind for quite a long time. Even though I haven’t yet joined the CPC, I’ve made it my goal to reach the standards of a CPC member.Last year, I joined the Students’ Union. I was an introverted boy who dared not answer any questions in class, but for the sake of my fellow students, I overcame my fear and learned to solve my problems in the Students’ Union confidently. With the power of faith (信念), I will become a better me.
