National anthem has new rules
China’s national anthem, March of the Volunteers, is a song that we learn at the beginning of primary school and sing at every flag-raising ceremony. And now, there’s even a law to protect it.In September, the government passed the National Anthem Law, which will take effect from Oct 1. It states how we should sing or play the song, requiring all citizens to respect it.According to the new law, the anthem will only be allowed to be played on certain occasions, such as during important sporting events or flag-raising ceremonies. It shouldn’t be played during private funerals or as background music in public places.Primary and middle schools must teach the anthem to their students and make them understand the song’s spirit and history. Moreover, the law requires citizens to be serious when singing the song. We can neither joke about it nor change the song’s words or music. If someone breaks the law, he or she can be detained for up to 15 days, or face further charges in more serious situations.The law was introduced after some people used various versions of the anthem that are seen as disrespectful.“It has even been adapted and used as background music for an advertisement, with people dancing about without any respect,” Yu Hai, who in his role as the former head of the military band of the People’s Liberation Army has performed the national anthem since 1970, told Xinhua News Agency.“The national anthem is different from other songs – it is the symbol of our country,” well-known music composer Jin Fuzai told Xinhua. “The law ensures people will be more serious when playing or singing the song.”Many foreign countries also have laws for their national anthems.For example, US school children should put their right hand over their heart while singing their country’s anthem at school. In Russia, the national anthem must be played on television and radio before the start and end of broadcasting. And in the Philippines, people are required to sing the national anthem with enthusiasm when it’s played in public.
