Killing won’t stop al-Qaida violence
The killing of Osama bin Laden in a daring operation conducted by a small team of US special forces brought the arduous, decade-long search for the 9/11 mastermind to a close.  But even as the American people celebrated, many new questions were emerging about what comes next for the US, for al-Qaida, and for the fight against extremism. Here are some answers.Q: What does Osama bin Laden’s death mean for al-Qaida’s future? A: Al-Qaida is an association of Islamic extremists who were involved in the September 11 attacks. Osama bin Laden had become a symbolic rather than an active commander of al-Qaida assets in recent years. Killing bin Laden removes the symbol, and bin Laden’s death is a blow for them.Q: Who’s left to take the reins? A: There are several *contenders for the role of al-Qaida leader. But reports suggest that Ayman al-Zawahiri will be bin Laden’s most likely successor. Al-Zawahiri, 60, is believed to have been running operations before the leader’s death. The Egyptian-born doctor is said to have been the brains behind bin Laden and his al-Qaida network, and at times its most public face. Q: How about the broader war on terrorism? How significant is bin Laden’s death? A: Because bin Laden was the ideological leader of the terrorist network, his death is a significant step towards damaging al-Qaida psychologically. The leader’s death may also make it harder for al-Zawahiri to spread al-Qaida’s radical ideology. However, because bin Laden had little practical power, it may mean that his death may have little impact on the sprawling networks of terrorism, according to Time magazine. Q: What is China’s stance on this issue?A: “Terrorism is the common enemy of the international community. China has also been a victim of terrorism,” said Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu. Jiang says that China has always been against terrorism and has been actively participating in the global anti-terrorism efforts. China sees Osama bin Laden’s death as a *milestone and a positive development in combating international terrorism. Q: Is the world safer now? What is the new challenge?A: US President Barack Obama called it a “good day for America”. He said that the death of bin Laden had made the world “a better place”. But there is now the possibility of extremists using bin Laden’s death as an excuse to launch fresh attacks.
