Royal birth sparks debate on monarchy
Media outlets in the UK went berserk over the arrival of the royal baby. Reporters camped for days outside the hospital where the Duchess of Cambridge stayed; TV presenters spent prime time slots speculating on the baby’s name or when it would ascend the throne; tabloid newspaper The Sun ¬even changed its masthead to “The Son” on the day the royal birth was announced.But many were irritated by the intense media coverage. Satirical news magazine Private Eye printed one simple sentence in bold letters on its cover: “Woman Has Baby”, to ridicule other media outlets’ frenzy over an event the editors considered to be non-news. The Guardian’s website featured a “republican” button to make all talk of the royal baby disappear for non-Royalist readers.Following the initial excitement, many wonder if it isn’t a bit silly to pay so much attention to one privileged family. But the UK’s republicans are taking it a step further — they argue that the British monarchy should be abolished altogether.This is not a new argument and to many it makes a lot of sense: The UK is a democracy, therefore the role of the royals is largely ceremonial. The royal family is also dependent on tax-payers’ money and no longer represents this highly diversified country.But the British people love their royals, and that’s a fact. According to a poll by Ipsos Mori last month, 77 percent of Britons want their country to remain a monarchy. For one thing, the royal family brings in heaps of tourism revenues.Tourism is the third biggest industry in the UK. An article on The Atlantic website cites statistics from the UK’s tourism agency, according to which the royal family generates close to 500 million pounds (4.8 billion yuan) every year in tourism revenues, drawing visitors to historic royal sites like the Tower of London, Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace.According to Buckingham Palace, sustaining the royal family costs each Briton 53 pence, per year. The total came to 33.3 million pounds in 2012-2013. So keeping the royal family is a good investment.Of course, many royalists also want to maintain the monarchy for non-economic reasons. Daniel Hannan, a conservative Member of the European Parliament, says in an article for The Telegraph that the British monarchy, as well as the parliamentary democracy, is a unifying national institution.He points out that the UK was the only European country to have fought in World War II and not lost. As a result, the British people didn’t have to start anew in 1945 because their political system hadn’t failed them. The British political system may seem old, but Hannan says that’s because it works.Hannan also says the monarchy is part of the British national identity. But a counter-argument in a Guardian editorial cites German philosopher Immanuel Kant, who argued that an enlightened culture is one that doesn’t rely on inherited traditions, authorities and social structures.As people in the Middle East and Africa shed their blood to fight for democratic rights, The Guardian editorial says it’s pathetic that the British people have no written constitution, no right to call themselves citizens (they are the Queen’s subjects) and still accept a “hierarchical, secretive, non-accountable” royal family.
