Fashionable First Ladies
Invited by China’s First Lady Peng Liyuan, US First Lady Michelle Obama is visiting China with her daughters this week. The two ladies will definitely attract attention in terms of fashion. Peng turned the world onto Chinese designer Ma Ke and the label Exception de Mixmind, while Mrs. Obama has made famous the American designer Jason Wu, along with Michael Kors and Ralph Lauren. Before their styles meet, let us review some of the attractive moments the two First Ladies have had under the public eye.First StrikeMichelle Obama wore a Thom Browne design to the US Presidential Inauguration. The Fist Lady arrived at St. John’s Church in Washington DC, wearing a checked-pattern overcoat. Her dark pink gloves were also highlights of her outfit.Peng, who accompanied her husband President Xi Jingping on his first state visit to Russia, wore a navy blue coat from designer Ma Ke. Her overcoat, together with the square black handbag, was very elegant. Her look’s highlight was in her light-blue scarf, adding a light style to her classic look.LayersPeng Liyuan used different shades of blue to create a flowing style, such as a long dark blue shirt matching a light blue skirt. The best part was her thin leather belt, in milky white, which added something fresh to her total look. Michelle Obama, on the other hand, used a cape-like shirt to match a cherry one-piece long dress. Her belt featured a few metallic touches, which went well with her ring.White shirtMichelle Obama’s white shirt was tight, with giant flounces. It was feminine, stylish, and delivered a strong and independent office look. Peng Liyuan’s white shirt, on the other hand, was wide in the cuffs and shoulders. It was elegant, classic, and especially so when she matched it with a same color tote and earrings.Formal suitMichelle Obama picked a baby blue suit for an official ceremony to welcome British Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife. The suit was a Zac Posen design. Peng Liyuan, on one formal occasion, wore a dark gray-and-green suit. However, she skillfully used a silk scarf, and she is known for her well-matched scarves!Conclusion: a promotion of home brandsThe two First Ladies’ power in fashion lies in their promotion of home-grown brands and designers.
