Climate talks promise action
Over the past 23 years, the entire world has been looking for a common response to climate change. Now a new hope has emerged.From Nov 30 to Dec 11, the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference is being held in Paris, France. Over 190 countries want to reach the world’s first binding, global deal on climate change at the meeting. They hope to cut emissions of greenhouse gases, like CO2, which lead the planet to warm up. They aim to prevent world temperatures from rising by over 2 C compared to pre-industrial levels.Above the 2 C threshold, the world would suffer the adverse effects of climate change, including increased flooding and droughts.The world began to tackle climate change in 1992, when countries agreed on the need to curb emissions. The first legally binding deal to cut emissions was the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, but it only applied to developed countries.The Kyoto Protocol will expire in 2020, so the world has to reach a new, global deal that covers all countries after 2020. Many conferences have been held, but no deal was reached. The biggest reason is that developed and developing countries were at loggerheads over who will bear the most responsibility and who will cut how much.Will this conference lead to a deal? Zhang Haibin, a professor from Peking University, is optimistic. This is because big carbon-emitting countries, which are responsible for 90 percent of emissions, already committed themselves to cuts before the meeting. China says its emissions will peak in 2030, while the US will cut emissions by about 26 percent from the 2005 levels.However, even if a deal is reached and everyone sticks to their reduction plan, the temperature will rise by 2.7 to 3 C by 2100, said the UN.But “if countries do nothing we could see temperature rises of 5 degrees. That is about the same temperature difference between the temperatures we have now and the temperatures on the planet during the last ice age over 12,000 years ago,” said The Irish Times.
