Uncertain time for UK politics
When UK Prime Minister Theresa May called for an early election in April, she was confident that her party would score a big win. But as it turned out, things didn’t go according to plan.The 2017 UK general election was held on June 8. But it ended with no party having the 326 seats needed to get an overall majority in the House of Commons. The Conservatives, May’s party, won only 318 seats, eight short of the magic number, reported BBC News.The result is an embarrassing turn for May, who called the election three years earlier than required. She was expected to get more support for the Conservatives to see the UK through the long and difficult Brexit negotiations. Instead, her party lost 12 seats, while Labour, the opposition party, gained 31 seats.The election results were fueled partly by a higher turnout rate among young British voters who had long been angry at the results of Brexit, reported The New York Times. The decision was seen by many young people as a threat to their jobs, their ability to study abroad and their desire to travel freely across the borders of the European Union.“I was so angry about Brexit that I buried my head in a pillow and screamed,” Louise Traynor, 24, a waitress in London, told The New York Times. “I was stupid enough to think that the country had some sense.” She had never voted before June 8, but in this election, she voted for the Labour Party.Traynor wasn’t alone. The turnout of 18-to-24-year-olds to vote in this election was 66.4 percent, compared to 43 percent in the 2015 general election, according to Sky News.And the increase of the young voters largely benefited the Labour Party, whose candidates won 63 percent among voters aged 18 to 34 years old. The Conservatives took only 27 percent.It’s believed that Labour’s promise to wipe out university tuition fees encouraged young people to vote for them, according to The Guardian.However, no matter what the reason for each vote was, the election is over. May plans to work with Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party to give her the number of seats required to form a government. The DUP won 10 seats in the election.As she said in front of No 10 Downing Street on June 9, “I will now form a government, a government that can provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country.”
