Macron wins France over
He was once a joke in French political circles. But now, Emmanuel Macron has had the last laugh.On May 7 local time, Macron won France’s presidential election. At the age of 39, he will be the country’s youngest president.Macron has never held elected office and is not a member of any of France’s major political parties. Without the backing of an established political party, Macron was seen by his opponents as inexperienced.However, he managed to make a success out of his campaign, defeating Marine Le Pen, former leader of France’s National Front party.Part of Macron’s charm is “his atypical rise”, according to CNN. He once worked as an investment banker, before eventually becoming a government minister. His private life has attracted attention, too. His wife, Brigitte Trogneux, is 24 years older than him.Unlike Le Pen, who calls for France to leave the European Union (EU), Macron is a firm defender of the EU. His success is a relief to those who feared that France would leave the EU after the shock of Brexit last June. “He carries the hopes of millions of French people, and of many people in Germany and the whole of Europe,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said at a press conference.And Macron has promised to put France back at the heart of the EU. “Macron’s victory [supports] France’s place as a central pillar of the European Union,” commented Fortune.And while Le Pen and her backers believe immigrants to be a threat to France, Macron has different ideas.“The French people shouldn’t be worried about immigration,” Macron said during a debate on May 3. “From an economic, cultural and social point of view, immigration is a chance.” He added that he will look into ways to attract skilled immigrants to France, and offer French classes for those already there.He will also focus on France’s relationship with other countries in general. In fact, Macron seems to have a big interest in China. He told French media Radio France Internationale in March that he believed “China is an important ally to France and Europe in fighting against terrorism, preventing climate change and improving global and regional peace.”And in another interview with French media Radio Television Luxembourg in March, he used a famous saying from late Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping, “it doesn’t matter whether the cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice”, to answer a question about how he saw the left and right divide in France.Although the French presidential campaign has ended, the real work is just about to begin. As Macron himself put it: “A new page in our long history has been turned.”
