‘President Obama, I’m actually Chinese.’
November 12, 2010, The G20 Summit in Korea has ended, during President’s Obama’s press conference CCTV anchor Rui Chenggang seized the chance to ask the last question given to the Korean press. He also claimed to be representing the entire Asia. His action stirred up some debates on the net. Here is their dialogue.THE PRESIDENT: I feel obliged to take maybe one question from the Korean press — since you guys have been such excellent hosts. Anybody? This gentleman right here — he’s got his hand up. He’s the only one who took me up on it. Go ahead. And I’ll probably need a translation, though, if you’re asking the question in Korean. In fact, I definitely will need a translation. (Laughter.)REPORTER: Unfortunately, I hate to disappoint you, President Obama, I’m actually Chinese. (Laughter.)THE PRESIDENT: Well, it’s wonderful to see you.REPORTER: But I think I get to represent the entire Asia.THE PRESIDENT: Absolutely.REPORTER: We’re one family here in this part of the world.THE PRESIDENT: Well, your English is better than my Mandarin also. (Laughter.) But — now, in fairness, though, I did say that I was going to let the Korean press ask a question. So I think that you held up your hand anyway.REPORTER: How about will my Korean friends allow me to ask a question on your behalf? Yes or no?THE PRESIDENT: Well, it depends on whether there’s a Korean reporter who would rather have the question. No, no takers? (Inaudible.) This is getting more complicated than I expected. (Laughter.)REPORTER: Take quick, one question from an Asian, President Obama.THE PRESIDENT: Well, the — as I said, I was going to — go ahead and ask your question, but I want to make sure that the Korean press gets a question as well.Rui’s action led to many disputes on the net where some ridiculed him and some cheered him on. One netizen said, “Come on, on behalf of someone before asking for their permission, can you not represent Asia without having ‘simida’ blood in you? We can only lose face nationally.” While other said, “Regardless of whether Rui can represent Asia, he certainly can represent China.” Some netizens also think Rui seizing the opportunity to ask question is an act of dedication to his work.November 13, 2010 Rui explained the reasons he seize to ask the question “Obama press conference is broadcasted worldwide, there was almost no chance for reporters outside of Unite States to ask questions. And these questions were all from Barack Obama named members of the White House press. And that is Obama’s common practice. In the end, he decided to add one more question, but stressed that a question from the Korean press. However there was not one Korean reporter raising their hands. This was a rare scene for president Obama and also quite embarrassing. It was my fifth time seeing president Obama, in order to save the moment and also to seize the opportunity to speak for the emerging market countries, sitting in the front row, I raised my hand. I also immediately explained that I came from China. He waited again for Korean press to raise their hands, but none showed. So we began the dialogue.”
