Online rudeness
Internet jargon, or “netspeak”, is popular among young people. It can be fun, convenient and, sometimes, vulgar.That vulgarity came under fire in a new official report. On Oct 15, the Ministry of Education released a Chinese language report for 2014. While affirming the positive role of some netspeak catchwords, the report also called for the regulation of offensive Internet lingo.According to the report, words like diaosi, or loser, epitomize the rude netspeak that has blanketed the Internet. Even some media outlets are using these words, said the report.“These vulgar words amplify the negative emotions of some Web users and pollute the online community,” said an opinion piece by Xinhua.Behind every trend lies a social or psychological need, though. The popularity of vulgar Internet lingo results from a tendency that the use of these vulgar words is seen as a means of entertainment, the Workers’ Daily pointed out.Not all netspeak catchwords are bad. Lots of them enrich and enliven our language, noted the Workers’ Daily. With the rapid development of the Internet, imaginative Web users created netspeak that is positive and inspiring, such as dianzan or “thumbs-up”, said Xinhua.These words even entered official speeches. “I would like to give a thumbs-up to all our great people,” said President Xi Jinping during his New Year greetings for 2015.Some netspeak words were born out of social events, mirroring the pulse of society. The catchphrase najiaqiang, which means “which one is the best”, is one example. In September 2014, a group scuffle involving a Shandong-based technical school made national headlines. Najiaqiang instantly became a hit after Web users rushed to change the school’s catchy slogan from “Which school teaches the best digger operating skills?”, to “Which school is the best for group scuffle?”The word najiaqiang may be just a harmless joke, but vulgar netspeak can really harm society. Fighting it requires the efforts of both authorities and individual Web users, said Xinhua.
