Fleeing Syria’s war
A tragic photo has made headlines around the world and awoken people to the Syrian refugee crisis.The photo shows the lifeless body of a baby boy lying flat on the beach, his face sunken into the wet sand. The toddler’s name was Aylan Kurdi. He had climbed aboard a smuggler’s boat to flee war-torn Syria, in hopes of reuniting with his aunt in Canada. But violent waves dumped Aylan and his family into the Mediterranean Sea. The water carried Aylan’s small body, and those of his brother and mother, to Turkish shores, where they were found and photographed on Sept 2.The shocking photo forced people to think about what needed to be done to help the 4 million Syrians who have become refugees. But why do these Syrians risk everything to flee their country?After World War I, the Ottoman Empire collapsed, and France took control part of the Ottoman territory, today known as Syria and Lebanon. French colonialists formed a border around different ethnic and religious groups. Not all of these groups got along.Muslims are split into two main branches, the Sunnis and Shia. The Assad family, who are Shia Muslims, took power in the 1970s. But Syria’s largest demographic is Sunni. According to an article written by Vox correspondent Zack Beauchamp, many Sunnis were not happy with their second-class status, and with the country’s corruption and inequity. Anti-government protests began in March 2011, and escalated after government decided to crack down. The protests had become a civil war by early 2012.The civil war was made worse by foreign involvement. Sunni opposition forces were backed by Sunni states like Saudi Arabia and Qatar, while Iran’s Shia government backed Assad. “It became, in part, a Middle East sectarian proxy war of Shia versus Sunni,” Beauchamp wrote.In 2011, an extremist group known as ISIS, mainly composed of Sunni Arabs in Iraq and Syria, also began fighting Assad in Syria.Civilians have suffered tremendously in Syria’s harsh conflict. Fighting and bombing have destroyed entire neighborhoods and towns. More than 250,000 people have been killed. Half of the country’s 22 million citizens have been displaced, with 4 million fleeing as refugees.Most Syrian refugees end up in camps in neighboring countries such as Turkey, Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon. But those places have been overcrowded and underfunded. Many of these refugees hope to resettle in Europe. But often, as in the case of little Aylan Kurdi, their voyage ends only in tragedy.
