Social media star killed
The media remembered her as Pakistan’s version of Kim Kardashian, a social media *provocateur known for her *risqué photos and bold opinions. But Qandeel Baloch was so much more than her Facebook profile: She was a woman who grew up alongside 11 siblings in the rural village of Shah Sadar Din, a woman who escaped a teenage marriage that she claims was forced, a woman who withstood rejection and *censure on her path to stardom.Between selfies and hashtags, she used her platform to champion feminist causes, *denouncing inequality and sending shout-outs to the likes of Malala Yousafzai, a Pakistani activist and Nobel Peace Prize *laureate. She wrote to her half-million-plus followers, “As a women we must stand up for ourselves... As a women we must stand up for each other.”But, at age 26, Baloch became a woman reduced to a statistic, when one of her brothers drugged her and *strangled her on July 15. She was the latest victim in a trend of so-called “honor killings” that has claimed 1,184 victims in the last year alone in Pakistan.The term “honor killings” refers to the practice of attacking someone who has shamed a family’s honor – but in reality, it is nothing more than murder. While many of these *homicides happen in Muslim communities, no single religion is responsible for these murders. Just last month, a teenage girl from a Christian family was killed in her sleep in Sialkot, Pakistan, all because her brother didn’t like her intended fiancé. Hindus, Jews and Sikhs have likewise been implicated in honor killings.Nor are honor killings limited to one part of the world. Recent incidents have been reported in North America and Europe, though they’re more commonly associated with North Africa and the Middle East. And while women are largely the targets, men are not immune either. Just last week, on July 20, a Pakistani man had his arms, nose and lips cut off after it was discovered he was having an affair. He died not long after, despite attempts to save his life, according to CNN.Baloch’s brother was *defiant when he faced the media, never apologizing for what he had done. “I am proud of what I did,” he said, according to CNN. “Girls are born to stay home and follow traditions. My sister never did that.”His words reveal the common root behind his actions: He was driven by *misogyny, pure and simple. The same misogyny that *permeates cultures around the globe. The same misogyny that results in equally *heinous crimes against women no matter their nationality or religion.Pakistan has promised breakthrough measures to prevent further honor killings from happening. A legal *loophole allows the victims’ families to forgive the murderer, so that he may escape punishment. In the wake of Baloch’s death, Pakistan announced it will close the loophole. It also took the rare step of declaring itself the complainant in Baloch’s murder case, preventing the brother from getting a family pardon.But the problem of honor killings is one for the world to solve, not just Pakistan. Until then, many more women risk sharing Baloch’s miserable fate.
