Don’t give up the fight
I know how disappointed you feel, because I feel it too. And so do tens of millions of Americans who invested their hopes and dreams in this effort. This is painful, and it will be for a long time. But I want you to remember this.Our campaign was never about one person, or even one election. It was about the country we love and building an America that is hopeful, *inclusive, and big-hearted.We have seen that our nation is more deeply divided than we thought. But I still believe in America, and I always will. And if you do, then we must accept this result and then look to the future. Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead. Our *constitutional democracy *enshrines the peaceful transfer of power.We spent a year and a half bringing together millions of people from every corner of our country to say with one voice that we believe that the American dream is big enough for everyone. For people of all races, and religions, for men and women, for immigrants, for LGBT people, and people with disabilities. For everyone.I have, as Tim said, I have spent my entire life fighting for what I believe in. I’ve had successes and setbacks, and sometimes painful ones. Many of you are at the beginning of your professional, public, and political careers – you will have successes and setbacks too. This loss hurts, but please never stop believing that fighting for what’s right is worth it.It is, it is worth it.And so we need–we need you to keep up these fights now and for the rest of your lives. And to all the women, and especially the young women, who put their faith in this campaign and in me, I want you to know that nothing has made me prouder than to be your champion.Now, I know we have still not *shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling, but someday someone will–and hopefully sooner than we might think right now.And to all of the little girls who are watching this, never doubt that you are valuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world to pursue and achieve your own dreams.
