Trump marks 100 days in office
The first 100 days of a US presidency only accounts for a small part of a four-year term, but it’s considered a landmark and often sets the tone for the administration.April 29 marked US President Donald Trump’s 100th day in office. So how has he performed?One important move was Trump’s successful appointment of Neil Gorsuch, a conservative justice, to the Supreme Court. This was a key promise made to many of the conservative voters who backed Trump in November, reported the Los Angeles Times.Another major move was formally leaving the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement. This is a trade deal that aims to create a free trade area spanning from Japan to Chile. But Trump claimed it would hurt American workers and undercut US companies. He believes that cheaper labor in developing countries means that many low-skilled jobs in the US have been taken away, according to Business Insider.But Trump has also met several failures.Soon after taking office, he signed an executive order banning visitors from seven mainly Muslim countries. But it was seen as illegal and discriminatory by US courts and was overturned. A revised ban met the same fate.Trump was a businessman and had no government experience before winning the White House seat.“If you’re the CEO of a company, you can say stuff and people will do what you want. But the presidency of the US is not like that in any respect,” Casey Dominguez, a professor of political science at the University of San Diego, US, told The San Francisco Chronicle.What’s more, a recent survey by ABC News and The Washington Post showed Trump approached his 100th day in office with the lowest level of support of any modern president.According to the survey, 42 percent of people said they approved of Trump’s performance, while 53 percent said they disapproved.Despite the controversies, Trump seems to be satisfied with his achievements. “No administration has accomplished more in the first 90 days,” Trump said on April 23, according to The New York Times.In fact, early setbacks and controversies are common for new presidents. Former US President Barack Obama faced an economic meltdown when he took over in 2009 and was forced to immediately make tough decisions on how to end it. He took a series of measures and the situation improved gradually. Obama won a second term in 2012.“You can use the first 100 days to try to understand some of the style of a presidency,” Julian E. Zelizer, a scholar from Princeton University, US, told the Los Angeles Times. “But we really need to limit our analysis to that.”As Trump has only just reached the 100-day point in his first term as president, it remains to be seen whether he will do well enough to be elected for a second.
