Thailand mourns loss
Tens of thousands of people in Thailand knelt weeping in the streets of Bangkok on Oct 14 as a *convoy carried the body of King Bhumibol Adulyadej to the city’s Grand Palace.The highly *revered monarch passed away on Oct 13, aged 88, and was considered a unifying figure by many. After the death of the beloved king of 70 years, Thailand began an official year-long period of mourning.“I knew he was sick but I still can’t believe this day has come,” said Parichart Kaewsin, 35, who works in a bank in Thailand, choking back tears. “That’s why I came here – to hear for myself. He was like our dad.”Bhumibol Adulyadej was born on Dec 5, 1927 in the US, while his father, Prince Mahidol of Songkhla, was studying medicine at Harvard University. Bhumibol *ascended the *throne in 1946 at the age of 18.As Thailand rocketed from an agricultural society of 18 million people to a modern, industrialized nation of 70 million, Bhumibol spearheaded thousands of projects to improve life for his people during his reign. Rather than confine himself to the luxury of his palaces, it’s said that he traveled to the farthest reaches of his nation to join village elders on patches of grass to discuss harvests or plan the *irrigation of *ditches.“They say that a kingdom is like a pyramid: The king on top and the people below,” he once told The Associated Press. “But in this country it’s upside down. That’s why I sometimes have a pain around here,” pointing to his neck and shoulders.However, over the past decade, the once vigorous Bhumibol gradually withdrew from public life due to a series of illnesses and became a frequent visitor to the Bangkok hospital where he later passed away.No date has been set for the *coronation of Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, the only son of the late king, who was expected to take over the throne from his father. Thailand’s Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-o-cha, told reporters that the crown prince had decided to delay his *enthronement to “take time to express sadness with the people nationwide for the time being”.A national holiday was declared as leading newspapers and websites removed color from their pages, movies and concerts were rescheduled and all television channels *simulcasted the same *tributes to the late king. The country’s government has also asked Thais to avoid wearing bright colors or hold any festive events for 30 days.Messages of *condolence also poured in from leaders around the world. His Majesty King Bhumibol was “a guide of the national development of Thailand and a promoter of China-Thailand friendship”, Chinese President Xi Jinping noted.“With a creative spirit and a drive for innovation, he pioneered new technologies that have rightfully received worldwide acclaim,” said US President Barack Obama. French President Francois Hollande *hailed the king for “exceptional human qualities... his profound sense of justice, his care for modernity and sustainable development.”
