Two-child law heralds change
Yi Xiaojing, 21, a junior at Lingnan Normal University in Guangdong, has a big family– her two parents, plus a younger brother and two younger sisters.Yi took her role as the “big sister” seriously. When her first sister was born, Yi took turns with her mom holding the baby late into the night. She changed diapers and mixed baby formulas. “I practically did everything that was supposed to be a parent’s job,” she said.Not all of Yi’s peers shared her experiences due to the family planning policy, a law that was enacted in China about four decades ago. But the situation is about to change. A communiqué issued on Oct 29 after the Fifth Plenary Session of the 18th Communist Party of China Central Committee said all couples can now have two children.The new policy is expected to help reverse China’s negative demographic trends. Up until recently, China was projected to face an aging population and labor shortages due to the current low birth rate.The two-child policy may also yield benefits for individual citizens. Researches found that growing up with a brother or sister can have a positive impact on one’s mental health.Emotional well-being“Siblings do matter in unique ways. They give kids something that parents don’t,” Laura Padilla-Walker, a Brigham Young professor, told Medical News Today. She noted that having a sibling protects adolescents against negative feelings such as loneliness, guilt, fear and self-consciousness.Liu Xiaofeng, 20, from Guangdong Peizheng College, has a younger sister. When her sister disagreed with parents over choosing a college major, she helped her to communicate with parents. “If it ever comes to the point of picking sides, I would always have her back,” said Liu. “The best part of having a sibling is that you have a companion, confidant and supporter throughout your life.”But children with siblings also have to learn to compromise and to rein in their emotions, said Padilla-Walker.Zhang Yuxuan, 21, a junior at Xi’an International Studies University, grew up with her younger brother in a village in Shaanxi while her parents worked in Xi’an. When her parents could afford one child in the city, they picked her brother. She stayed in the countryside for another five years.“Situations like that are inevitable because the resources are limited,” she said. “I have no resentment or hard feelings.”
