Why does Magna Carta matter?
On June 15, 1215, one of the most important documents in world history was signed. The document is called the Magna Carta, Latin for “Great Charter”, and was signed by John, King of England, and his barons.A series of events are taking place in the UK to mark the occasion, including a flotilla of boats sailing down the Thames and a royal appearance in Runnymede, England, the site of the charter’s sealing 800 years ago.Why is the Magna Carta so important? How did it come about? What is its legacy?The Magna Carta established the rule of law. No one, not even the king, was above the law. The charter also laid the foundation for the modern judicial system in many countries.A symbol of liberty and human rights, the Magna Carta was originally meant to be a peace treaty between King John and his barons. The king fought losing wars in France, demanding more taxes from nobility expected to pay up if the king asked.The barons were angry about the king exploiting their loyalty and taking an absolute approach to power, so they rebelled, took over London and forced the king to negotiate.Power by the peopleThe Magna Carta established the principle that the people of England, at this stage represented by the barons, could limit the power of a king, explains a BBC article. It was the first formal document stating that a king had to follow the laws of the land and it guaranteed the rights of individuals against the wishes of the king. This meant people couldn’t be arrested, imprisoned or have their possessions taken away unless they were determined to have violated the law of the land by their peers. This laid the way for trial by jury, which means people are tried by their peers and guaranteed the civil rights of the individual.Basically this means that the law belongs to everyone, not just the powerful. Many people regard the Magna Carta as the death certificate of despotism.According to Maxwell Cameron, a professor from the University of British Columbia in Canada, the Magna Carta was a first attempt to write down and formalize the rule of law. It was really a kind of proto-constitution, says Cameron in an article published on the university’s website. The Magna Carta has been looked to for inspiration by constitution writers every since.For example, there are strong influences from the Magna Carta in the US Declaration of Independence and US Bill of Rights. In Canada, the Magna Carta forms part of the country’s common law tradition.When people talk about writing constitutions today, they talk about writing a “Magna Carta”. That phrase has become synonymous with constitutionalism.
