Trend for recycled fashion
When you open your closet, chances are that you will see some unwanted clothes lying in the corner. But instead of throwing them away, wouldn’t you rather give them a second chance to shine? Well, people around the world are doing just that.This spring, upcycled denim and sustainable lace are gaining popularity. They are part of the “ethical” and “sustainable” trends that have become the biggest buzzwords in fashion in recent years, the Guardian reported.Upcycling, according to sustainability website TriplePundit, is a way to process an old item to make it just as good, or even better, than it was originally. For example, you could turn some old pajamas into a new summer dress.Among upcyclable fabrics, denim is one of the most comfortable and fashionable. That’s why many people like to create their own unique upcycled denim items, such as cutting a headband from a denim shirt.Many fashion companies have also joined the trend. For example, there are upcycled denim companies that combine the spirit of vintage denim with the principles of sustainability. “For as long as denim has been around, we have found ways to reuse it and upcycle it,” US stylist Kelly Nagel told fashion website sulky.com. “Denim is such a great fabric for so many things, and I especially love it when it has been ‘worn-in’. That is when denim has the most character.”Lace is another timeless fabric that can be repurposed. According to the Guardian, it can be created from recycled fishing nets and other nylon waste products and used for making elegant dresses or beautiful decorations.Indeed, fashion holds up a mirror to society. Now, the fashion industry cares not only about creating new looks, but also about its impact on the environment. “Choosing better fabrics is essential to us transforming this industry for the better,” Clara Vuletich, a Sydney-based sustainability expert, told the Guardian. “If you consciously decide to purchase clothes made using a recycled material or an exciting new fiber, such as cruelty-free leather made in a lab, you are supporting companies creating new markets, and avoiding the negative impacts associated with conventional textiles.”
