Go crazy for coconut
Ask any beauty lover in the West which item on their *nightstand they couldn’t go without, and it’s very likely what the answer would be.Celebrity chefs including British TV star Nigella Lawson use it in recipes, supermodels swear by its anti-aging properties, and everyday people across the world use it as a cure-all for everything from *lackluster hair to lung problems.So what is this wonderful *concoction? Nothing more than simple coconut oil.“I use coconut oil every day. It boosts your *metabolism, aids in weight loss, supports immunity, stops sugar cravings, and best of all –*hydrates and makes skin stronger, preventing wrinkles and *sagging,” writes US reality star Kourtney Kardashian on her blog.Traditionally, coconut oil was used in the West as an alternative to *lard or other fatty oils in cooking and baking.Hitting its peak in the 1950s, it later fell out of fashion following bad publicity after several media reports insisted that all *saturated fats (which it is rich in) were bad for our health.However, later research found that coconut oil is unique in its structural make-up and is a less “harmful” fat than others, which lead to its *resurgence not just in the kitchen, but as a health and beauty silver bullet.“My parents grew up using coconut oil and so did I,” says Dorret Conway, a chef and ex-contestant of reality TV show The Great British Bake Off, whose family originates from the West Indies.“Coconut also features significantly in traditional Jamaican cooking. Authentic Jamaican rice and peas uses coconut to give it that unmistakeable delicious flavor and silky texture.”Most of the world’s coconuts are imported from Asia and the industry is worth several billions of dollars. The fruit is everywhere – from health drinks, chocolate bars and *smoothies. And mega-celebs Victoria Beckham, Blake Lively and Jennifer Aniston are all said to be firm fans of the fruit’s oil.Extracted by “pressing” raw coconut meat, the oil can be used in practically countless ways, in and out of the kitchen. Organic, cold-pressed virgin oil is said to be the best.People are constantly discovering more and more ways to get the most out of it, with a quick online search bringing up thousands of “101 ways to use coconut oil” blog posts.“Coconut oil has also long been used in hair and skin products catering for Afro-Caribbean customers. I use a coconut oil-based cream daily but the oil’s now being hailed as a miracle ingredient for beautiful skin for all,” says Conway. “It has a long and established heritage in our culture.”At only around $8 (53 yuan) a jar, it won’t break the bank to give it a try some time. And who knows, perhaps you’ll even end up making a “101 uses” site of your own.
