Teenagers dream of online jobs
Twenty-five years ago, most young Britons wanted a career in law, to be a doctor, or, if they were creatively minded, to take up singing. But today, things stand differently.According to a survey by Tesco Mobile, a UK telecoms company, the “dream job” of young people aged between 16 and 25 in the UK is a video blogger, or “vlogger”. The survey, carried out among 1,002 people, found that as much as 40 percent of them put vlogger as their number one choice on a list of ideal careers.The single factor contributing to this change is undoubtedly the internet and social media. They have made it so much easier to reach a global audience, without having to enter a career in show business the traditional way.“In years gone by, the biggest stars were groomed and trained by the Hollywood studios; now, anyone with a computer camera can become an icon,” a Tesco Mobile spokesperson said in a news release. “From fashion to comedy, these self-made stars document their hobbies to an adoring fan-base. Vloggers are the big stars of today because they are normal people interacting with their fans about everyday life.”However, what people see is only the bright side of being a vlogger and they ignore the fact that only those who are successful gain fame and fortune. For every success there are a hundred others who never get off the starting block. There are the dreams that come true and the dreams that are destined to remain dreams.This is why despite the popularity of vloggers, some young people chose to follow careers that don’t necessarily earn them fame, but allow them to make good use of the internet to share their hobbies. Young Israeli David Leshaw, for example, runs a business called the Finishers Club. It’s an online platform for runners to keep a record of their races. He told the career website Zippia that his job allows him to express his passion, and is always a learning experience. And that’s enough for him.“Generations of today have so many more options and opportunities than older age groups and the internet and development of technology have aided that growth,” Phil Samuels, spokesperson for UK tech retailer Currys, told the Mirror.
