Stand out with strange fashion
Have you ever looked at a fashionable item of clothing and felt confused?If so, your confusion may have made sense.Last month, high fashion brand Balenciaga released a “T-shirt shirt”, which is a shirt sewn on the front of a T-shirt. The unusual design has certainly confused a lot of people.But the “double shirt” isn’t fighting alone on the frontier of strange fashion. Ever since US shoe manufacturer Crocs released its famous hole-filled foam shoes, so-called “ugly fashion” hasn’t showed any signs of slowing down, the Business of Fashion website noted.British designer Paul Surridge believes that the rise of ugly fashion is a sign that people are bored of looking perfect all the time. “[Fashion] thrives on novelty,” he told the Financial Times.Indeed, fashion is all about changes. Something that’s considered uncool one minute can then turn out to be the latest must-have fashion item the next.And in the eyes of US fashion writer Megan Collins, ugly doesn’t necessarily mean the design of the item is ugly. After all, ugly is something subjective. “Ugly fashion means ‘not the mainstream”– it’s not what everyone’s wearing, it’s not what the general population considers as ‘in’ right now,” she told style news site Fashionista.But throughout the history of fashion, when any new trend appears, most people tend to hate it, before it eventually becomes loved. As Italian designer Miuccia Prada told The New York Times, “Maybe because it is newer, ugly is attractive. Ugly is exciting.”Meanwhile, popular social media fashion bloggers also help people to pick up new ugly fashion trends. These bloggers express themselves through their clothes, showing their unique personalities and making statements with their wardrobe choices. However, as Clever-ish Magazine noted, just being comfortable in your own skin could actually be “the best look”.“I personally love having a unique expression, because without ugly fashion and diversity (多样性) , we’d all look the same,” Australian fashion influencer Zanita Whittington told Fashionista. “I appreciate anything that’s out of the norm.”
