Preserving important female culture
It’s known that Chinese women in days gone by weren’t given the right to receive a formal education. But this doesn’t mean that they made no efforts to learn. One of the proofs is in Nüshu – literally meaning “female script” – a written language that was used by women in Jiangyong county, Hunan province.Often called “the world’s only surviving characters exclusively for women”, this slim script was developed from standard written Chinese. Hundreds of years ago, Nüshu was taught at home by elderly women to girls. And during gatherings in villages, women would use the characters to write poems or song lyrics to express the emotions they were hiding from men.Worried that this ancient culture will soon disappear, Zhao Liming, a professor at Tsinghua University, started a project to keep Nüshu alive. One of the project’s recent achievements is an app designed by Talkmate, a Beijing-based online language education platform, to teach Nüshu to more people. The app is scheduled for release in September during the first Beijing International Language & Culture Expo.Zhao expects the app to present a true image of Nüshu to the public after myths about it were spread. For example, people often misjudge the characters as “symbols of some secret cult”. But the fact is that many old poems written in Nüshu were created by women talking about their difficulties in life and how they made it through hardships.“The words were full of encouragement and positive energy, and showed an uncommon open-mindedness among women at the time,” Zhao said.JiXianlin, the late historian and linguist, once said that Nüshu is a feminist symbol since it was “created by talented women who were deprived of the right to education,” he wrote in an article.And this is why this ancient script still has its significance in modern times. “After public education was established and women got the right to attend school, Nüshu lost its functionality,” Zhao said. “However, feminist ideas are getting more emphasis today.”
