Christie’s legacy lives on
She was known to millions as the “Queen of Crime” or the “Duchess of Death”. But surprisingly, she hated violence and blood, and didn’t know much about the weapons most often used in murder. “I don’t think I’d dare look at a really horrible and damaged body,” Agatha Christie once said.But the pen of the British writer dared to travel where her eyes wouldn’t. During her 50-year writing career, Christie’s murder stories made her the world’s best-known mystery writer.Her novels have been turned into films and TV series. And a new film adaptation of Murder on the Orient Express, Christie’s 1934 detective novel, will be released on the big screen on Nov 10. This is already the fourth adaptation of this novel.Born in 1890 in England, Christie was educated at home and began her writing career while working as a nurse during World War I. She went on to produce 79 novels and several short stories, before dying at the age of 86. With her knowledge of murder, Christie could easily have taught would-be detectives a few things.But instead, she chose to give her skills to her favorite character – Hercule Poirot, a retired Belgian police officer who she introduced in her first novel, The Mysterious Affair at Styles. Poirot then starred in 30 of her works, including Murder on the Orient Express and Death on the Nile. The character has become so famous that someone has even written his biography, The Life and Times of Hercule Poirot.Christie also featured interesting aspects of human nature in her work, usually by putting a large group of characters in an isolated environment. An example is And Then There Were None, in which 10 people with different personalities and from different social backgrounds were trapped on an island and soon started to mysteriously die one after the other. Each character’s story is portrayed with depth, and put together, they make for a fascinating read.“From the British country house to the exotic mysteries of the East, her vivid construction of character and place combined with dramatic moral complexities  engages readers,” wrote mystery author TP Fielden in the Express.
