China’s trains speeding ahead
At 9 am on Sept 21, a fully loaded high-speed train left Beijing for Shanghai. Seconds later, when the screen showed the speed of 350 km/h, excited passengers held up their cameras and cellphones and took photos of it.China’s new-generation high-speed train, the Fuxing, is now one of the fastest trains in the world, reported China Daily.By the end of 2016, there were 2,595 high-speed trains running across China, which made up 60 percent of the world’s total high-speed trains, according to Xinhua News Agency. China has built more than 10 high-speed railways in Europe, Southeast Asia and South America, and is quickly becoming known as the leader of high-speed train technology.Adolfo de Pedro, a 58-year-old Spaniard on a business trip to Shanghai, asked his colleague to take pictures for him once they boarded the Fuxing.“We have bullet trains in Spain ... but they’re useless because some cities only have two passengers going for the ride,” he told China Daily. “Here in China, it’s much better. It’s more efficient and always good.”Besides high-speed rail, China has improved people’s lives in many other innovative ways over the last decade.Bike sharing, for example, is not new itself. But China has made it much more convenient and popular both in China and overseas. Leading Chinese bike-sharing companies Mobike and Ofo are now operating in foreign countries such as Singapore and Britain. Users in the countries were excited and posted photos of themselves riding the Chinese bikes on social media.And back in China, if you’re riding your shared bike and stop to buy a bottle of water, don’t worry if you’ve forgotten your wallet. You could easily pay with your smartphone by scanning the seller’s QR code.Cashless payment has grown into a lifestyle choice for Chinese people – even a street stall selling fruit has a QR code. Twenty-eight-year-old German Thomas Derksen, an online celebrity with millions of Chinese fans on SinaWeibo and other social media networks, recently posted a public letter to German Chancellor Angela Merkel online, calling for the promotion of a cashless economy in Germany.Derksenspent an entire day in Hangzhou without any cash or bankcards on hand. He told China Daily that it was something he could not imagine doing back home in Europe.So what’s next for China? It seems that we still have many more great ideas to look forward to. As the country produced many graduates in science, technology, engineering and mathematics in 2016, we can expect “lots of room for many more innovations to be birthed in China”, wrote the Financial Times.
