Private universities given chance to shine
Located beside Hangzhou’s beautiful West Lake, a new private university will soon rise.The Ministry of Education has officially approved the opening of the new Westlake University, reported China Daily. It will be China’s first private doctorate-granting university. As a new-type of research-oriented university, it will focus on advanced technology and scientific research.At first, it will only offer doctoral education, but will start undergraduate programs in the future, with no more than 5,000 students. The project was put forward by a group of top Chinese academics, including former Tsinghua University vice-president Shi Yigong, who was elected as the university’s first president on April 16.In 15 years, it “will be regarded as one of the best universities, not just in Asia but around the world,” said Shi, reported the South China Morning Post.According to Shi, during the past few decades, China’s public universities such as Peking and Tsinghua have developed greatly. On the other hand, private universities have mostly remained at the same level.“Most of the private universities focus on vocational training, providing low-level skilled workers to the society instead of high-end talent,” said Shi. “However, in the US, private universities play an important role in cultivating top talent.”The approval of this university is seen as a move that could “add a new type of institute to the Chinese higher education sector that has long been dominated by public universities”, commented CGTN.Like US private universities, Westlake University will be under the governance of a board of directors, and the president will run the university.Meanwhile, its funding will come from donations, tuition, and research projects, as well as government subsidies, according to People’s Daily. Businesspeople such as Tencent founder and CEO Pony Ma and Wanda Group founder Wang Jianlin have already offered funds to the university.The approval of Westlake University comes at a time when China is trying to promote private education. On Sept 1, 2017, a revised law on private education took effect, which includes various measures to support private education. For example, it says that non-profit private schools will enjoy the same policies as public schools in land use and taxation. It’s hoped that private universities will play a bigger role in China’s higher education in the future.“We hope that after 20 or 30 years, there will be a group of famous private universities in China like the Westlake University, which could be well respected in China and by the world,” Shi told China Youth Daily.
