Tourists travel to top universities
Where did you go during the summer holidays? Chances are some of you may have visited Tsinghua and Peking universities. And you weren’t alone.This summer, crowds of tourists traveled to the campuses of these two universities, reported China Youth Daily. “Tsinghua University opens to the public at 8:30 am, however, many people start to line up at 3-4 am, because people who come at 6 am may be too late and can only enter in the afternoon,” a guard told People’s Daily.In fact, it’s not only Chinese universities that are overcrowded in summer. Cambridge and Oxford in the United Kingdom also come across the same problem.According to The Guardian, the road in front of King’s College, Cambridge is usually filled with tourists, including Chinese schoolchildren in uniforms, before most coach (长途汽车) tours have even arrived.Universities in the United States are also popular among Chinese tourists. Nine out of 10 Chinese visitors to the US want to tour a university, according to a survey from 2014 by US tourism company Attract China.So why do Chinese tourists have such a big love for famous universities?One reason is that many parents hope to get their children accepted into a top university in the future, according to People’s Daily.For example, SuChanyi, a mother from Hunan province, walked her 14-year-old son around the campuses of Tsinghua and Peking universities this summer.“I brought him here to see what top universities look like and let him compare them with those of our hometown. I hope he can learn something and be inspired to come here to study in the future,” she told China Daily.And it’s not just aspiring (有抱负的) students and parents you’ll find touring campuses.Wang Yuntao, 31, who comes from Xi’an, visited two famous US universities in 2014.“American universities are much more open than Chinese ones. There are no walls,” he told The New York Times. “I was excited. I felt this urge to have a free exchange of ideas with someone.”
