Smarten up your home
Most of us have been in this situation. You’re halfway to meet friends for dinner, then you suddenly think to yourself, “did I remember to turn the iron off?”. For those with “smart homes” however, this isn’t something that would ruin their night.Over the last few years, smart home technology has become more prominent and is now more affordable than ever. Thanks to user-friendly products such as intelligent lighting, heating controllers and motion *sensors, being able to control nearly every electrical item in your home from anywhere in the world is no longer confined to science fiction stories.“All of our light switches are controllable via our phones and computers. Our home security system, our TV and our heating and cooling controls are all linked together too,” says Mike Poulson, 35, a senior program manager from Seattle, US, whose high-tech home even greets him and his family when they enter.While smart home tech isn’t new–the concept has been around for decades–companies like Philips, with its Hue lighting technology, as well as Amazon and Google, which have recently released speakers that control the home with the help of AI (artificial intelligence), are finally putting home automation into easier reach of everyday people.“The obvious message to consumers is that you can stop wasting energy,” Tom Kerber, director of research for US-based digital analysis firm Park Associates, told The Guardian.“Automation gives you an opportunity to *optimize the settings.”And while being able to automate tasks like having the kettle boiled and ready when you wake in the morning leaves time to focus on other tasks, the technology has more meaningful uses.In Norway, for example, one company is using smart tech to make life easier for its elderly customers. The firm, Abilia, has designed a system that allows carers to check up on patients through a Skype-enabled tablet that’s mounted on a wall inside their homes.Taking care of ourselvesThe device, which also sends patients spoken reminders about tasks, such as when they need to take medication, is even connected to a series of sensors which alert carers if there’s any unusual activity in the home that could be potentially life-threatening.“With this kind of system, it allows people to take care of themselves, which is the most important thing,” Abilia’s vice president, Oystein Johnsen, told the BBC.“It also saves the government money. In Norway, it costs 1 million *kroner (824,000 yuan) per year to have someone in a [care home]. This system costs 15,000 kroner a year.”So, for those who have already “gone smart”, would it ever be possible to go back to doing things the old-fashioned way?“I think it would be difficult. When we go to a friend’s house or on vacation we find ourselves expecting the house to do things for us that ours does. It’s not the end of the world but just annoying that things don’t work as expected,” Poulson explains.“It would be like going back to a world without cell phones. Not impossible, just different.”
