China's "father of space program" mourned across country
China’s keystone space scientist Qian Xuesen, widely acclaimed as the country’s "father of space technology" and "king of rocketry", died of illness in Beijing Saturday morning at the age of 98. In 1956, based on Qian’s position paper on the country’s defense and aviation industry, the central government set up an aviation industry committee, which later became the leading organization for China’s missile and aviation programs. Under the guidance of Qian, also known as Tsien Hsue-shen, China finished the blueprint on developing jet and rocket technology. He also played a significant role in developing the country’s first artificial earth satellite.  "Mr. Qian used to hold academic seminars for us. We exchanged scientific ideas and wrote articles together. The whole time when we worked with Mr. Qian had a great influence on us," Yu Jingyuan, a senior researcher with the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation said Saturday afternoon on hearing the news. In one of Qian’s legendary stories, a missile project team encountered repeated failures during the engine experiments in 1950s. Team members couldn’t figure out what was wrong and turned to him. In a meeting, Qian paced around the room, listened to everyone’s ideas and ask them further questions for about 40 minutes. He then hinted the team that they should take into account the high-frequency vibration when the engine was running. He was right. In June 1964, China successfully created its first medium- and short-range missile, marking the start of the country’s first missile defense system nuclear weapon. During the man-made satellite project, when everyone else was not sure that the satellite would work perfectly in space given the limited testing facilities, Qian researched piles of documents and papers and wrote, "In my opinion, the satellite is done." On April 24, 1970, "Dongfanghong-I (Red East 1)", the country’s first man-made satellite, was successfully launched. These days, on the official BBS of the Shanghai Jiao Tong University, where Qian majored in mechanic engineering from 1929 to 1934, many alumni still couldn’t believe the news while replies to the posts soon topped 850 in six hours. Many regarded his death as "a superstar fell" and expressed their blessings for him -- "Dear Mr. Qian, rest in peace. We will never forget your achievements." 
