Loving and hating the iPad
It’s “laughably absurd” on one blog and a “magical revolution” on another.Bloggers are talking about the same thing, the same divisive device. They’re referring to the much-hyped Apple iPad that hit store shelves last week. The new e-tablet gadget starts from $499, and has split the tech world so sharply that veteran New York Times tech writer David Pogue says he’s never seen such a polarizing product.Opinions boil down to a simple premise: If you are a tech-head you will hate it, if you are everyone else you will love it.Tech-heads hate the iPad because it’s versatile–you can e-mail, browse the Web, read books–and yet it has no specialty. There are other devices on the market that do all its functions faster, cheaper and more efficiently. Get an Amazon Kindle to read an e-book, a Blackberry to scan e-mails or any old laptop to access the Internet.This first no-frills version of the iPad lacks many basic features. Tech-heads dislike the device not because of what it offers, but because of what it doesn’t offer. It doesn’t have Flash (that program required to run most online video), and it doesn’t have a camera. It can’t access many of the world’s mobile applications, and it has a very restricted app store. Based on purely technological grounds, the iPad is said to lack more than it gives.But if you are not part of the technologically well-versed, and you love the iPod and iPhone, “this device is for you,” said Steve Jobs, Apple’s CEO.The iPad will take online activities truly mobile. It will allow you to read the news in bed, play multiplayer scrabble on any surface, check a recipe in a busy kitchen or view a large-scale Google map.It will herald a new age of online media production, taking newspapers and magazines down the rabbit hole. Online versions can now become truly interactive. The editor of Time magazine Richard Stengel said, “The iPad will transform the way journalism works. It will become a new way of storytelling”.Perhaps most important to the masses, it is a traditional computer without all the fuss. There are no cords, and it’s totally mobile. You press a button and it comes on in seconds. To add a program, you just download it from the Internet. There is no file directory, so you won’t be confused with file locations. Since almost everyone uses a computer in the office or at school, the need for the traditional desktop model at home is vanishing. Slate Magazine’s Farhad Manjoo calls the iPad the perfect alternative to the full home computer system.But no matter how you feel about the iPad, as a tech-head or an everyman, there’s no arguing with its appeal. Love it or hate it, the iPad sold over 600,000 units on its opening weekend, surpassing the iPhone’s record sales in 2007. It’s uncertain how long it will take to hit the tech markets here in China, but when it does, expect the iPad fad to continue. Apple predicts it will sell over 7.1 million units in the first year. Maybe not magical, and definitely not absurd, but if the iPad follows in the footsteps of the iPhone and iPod, you could be reading this newspaper on it in the near future.
