Digital age poses challenges for authors
When Chris Morphew started writing stories about dinosaurs and time machines as a kid, he never imagined he would become a best-selling author. Several years and countless books later, the 26-year-old Australian is still wondering about the future.It seems anything is possible for young authors like Morphew in today’s digital age, where electronic books can be purchased and downloaded with only one click. Morphew, who has published two kids’ adventure series, says e-books can *entice readers because most retailers allow a sneak preview before buying. “It’s a great way to introduce potential readers to a novel, and hopefully get them hooked enough to pay for the rest,” Morphew said.The e-book phenomenon is taking off among consumers. The global e-book market grew by more than 200 percent last year, according to a new report from Futuresource Consulting. The market is boosted by a rising number of e-book services, e-reading devices and tablets like the iPad.  But in a world of such easily downloadable material, Morphew says piracy and copyright issues are concerning. “As an author who pours months of his life into each book he creates, it’s disheartening to think that people might be willing to take what I’ve created without giving any thought to the effort that went into producing those projects in the first place,” he said.It’s no secret that the Internet is awash with unlicensed, free digital copies of books on file-sharing websites. This has led some successful authors to worry about dwindling profits. “If readers lose the habit of paying me for my work, I can’t work. Writing is how I make my living,” British novelist Chris Cleave told the Guardian. William Kostakis, a 21-year-old Australian author who is currently completing his second novel, isn’t so concerned. He says book digitization can actually make it easier for young writers to support their careers. “Competitive pricing and self-publishing through Amazon means that authors can get their work out to the world, and start making money,” Kostakis said.Kostakis says freelancing is another great way to help pay the bills. He is currently writing for the online Australian news site Ninemsn.com.“Freelancing is the key to making money until you’re established, with most authors turning to journalism after publication to support themselves financially,” Kostakis said.So is there hope for young authors out there? It appears so. Life in the technological fast lane has them charging full speed ahead. 
