Scientific terms in the Interstellar
Every work of Christopher Nolan will puzzled the audience too much, for instance, his previous film Inception. I don’t know my conclusion is correct or not although I’ve seen the film for 4 times. The Interstellar is no exception. The famous physicist Kip Thorne is one creator of the team, and the production of this flim has a solid scientific theory foundation which is definitely obscure and abstract.In order to make everybody understand the meaning of Interstellar, this passage will explain some scientific terms and theoretical knowledge mentioned in the flim.1、Murphy’s lawThe leading man’s daughter in the flim called Murphy, and she is always complaining about the relationship between her name and the unlucky Murphy’s law.Murphy’s law is usually thought to be named after Captain Edward Murphy, a development engineer with the United States Air Force in the middle of the last century.Murphy’s law is an adage or epigram that is typically stated as: Anything that can go wrong will go wrong.The plots of the film have embodied the correctness of murphy’s law for many times. It can lead tasks to a right direction except messing things up. The hero saved all the human beings with the action of Murphy’s law. We can see from this perspective that the Murphy’s law is a kind of interpretation of probability, and it doesn’t mean bless, good luck or disasters itself.2、Relativity、Relative TheoryThe theory of relativity, or simply relativity in physics, usually encompasses two theories by Albert Einstein: special relativity and general relativity.3.LazarusLazarus is the subject of a prominent miracle attributed to Jesus in the Gospel of John, in which Jesus restores him to life four days after his death. The name Lazarus is often used toconnote apparent restoration to life.4、WormholeA wormhole, officially known as an Einstein–Rosen bridge, is a hypothetical topological feature of spacetime that would fundamentally be a shortcut through spacetime.5、Black HoleA black hole is a region of spacetime from which gravity prevents anything, including light, from escaping. In many ways a black hole acts like an ideal black body, as it reflects no light. The theory of general relativity predicts that a sufficiently compact mass will deform spacetime to form a black hole.6、HyperspaceHyperspace refers to reaching the other end of the universe fast through the multi-dimensional space(we live in 4-dimensional space). Hyperspace refers to the dimensional space which is more than four dimensions. String theory (M theory ) predicts that there should be 11 hyperspatial dimensions.7、The Slingshot EffectThe slingshot effect is used to accelerate a spacecraft in a planetary flyby。NASA calls this a gravity assist, and exploits it to save fuel in missions to outer planets such as Jupiter and Saturn.
