To be the next millionaire
In the months leading up to his college graduation in June, Yang Fugang spent most of his days away from campus, managing an online store that sells cosmetics, shampoo and other goods he often buys from local factories.Today, his store on Taobao.com - China’s fast-growing online shopping bazaar - has 14 employees, two warehouses and piles of cash."I never thought I could do this well," said Mr. Yang, 23, who earned $75,000 last year. "I started out selling yoga mats and now I’m selling a lot of makeup and cosmetics. The profit margins are higher."Taobao fever has swept Mr. Yang’s school, Yiwu Industrial and Commercial College, where administrators say a quarter of its 8,800 students now operate a Taobao shop, often from a dorm room.Here in Yiwu, which claims to be the site of the world’s biggest wholesale market, Taobao has started to change the look of Yiwu Industrial and Commercial College.The school’s vice dean, Jia Shaohua, points out an area designated as a start-up site for students seeking to get rich. He points to students taking orders by computer, packaging products, sorting inventory and taking photos of the items for display online, then adds, "Around the school now, there is a whole Taobao industrial chain."Every afternoon, even this summer, when the school should be relatively empty, one can hear the ripping sounds of tape being wrapped around boxes in a building that could pass for a United Parcel Service shipping terminal."The students don’t need a lot of money," Mr. Jia said. "They just get orders and go find the items at local factories."Mr. Yang, the cosmetics seller, has become a campus hero. He operates his own warehouses a few miles from the school, in the basements of a pair of residential buildings.Standing in his crowded warehouse, near boxes of Neutrogena sun block, hairpins, toothbrushes and a wide assortment of cosmetics, Mr. Yang says business could not be better."Soon, I’ll reach $150,000 a month in sales," he said, flashing a big grin.
