Beware of Web superpowers
The *tussle between QQ, China’s most popular instant messaging service, and China’s biggest antivirus provider Qihoo 360 is coming to an end after government intervention. But the significance of “the most vicious online war”, as online users put it, doesn’t end here.When the users were forced to make a choice between QQ and 360, they changed from spectators to victims. But that might not be the worst that could happen to you when an IT company or service influences millions of users. The 3Q fight only opens a pandora’s box.Below, we invited experts to describe the worst-case scenario: how users’ rights might be threatened by the increasing power of Internet companies?As told by Ni Guangnan, 71, researcher at the Institute of Computing Technology in the Chinese Academy of SciencesMicrosoft: It is not hard to imagine the worst-case scenario if Microsoft wields its power. In the “black screen incident” in October 2008, Microsoft threatened to turn black the desktop of any user found to be running a pirated operating system. It acted like a hacker, invading personal computers and data.In a worse case, operating system providers could invade a personal computer through the Internet.For instance, in the Windows 2000 operating system, the ClipBook service allows anyone who connects to the Internet check your clip board. Also, the DNS Client service enables the invader to get a list of websites you have visited.Then it must not be surprising that Microsoft, the system provider, could do more.Through the system and Internet connection, Microsoft could check the content of your files saved in your computer, create new files, change file names, and delete and copy files.RestraintsUsers can’t rely on the ethics or goodwill of large companies to protect them. Most computers are sold with the Microsoft operating system pre-installed. That annoys many users. And many companies are competing against Microsoft, but Microsoft is still on top.Since 1997, Microsoft has been involved in a series of anti-monopoly lawsuits in the US, South Korea and European Union. In 2007 it paid a €497 million (4.6 billion yuan) record fine to the EU for abusing its dominant market position and making it difficult for rivals to design compatible products.Your fight-backEarlier this year, the Cuban government announced to stop using the Windows operating system. Instead, they opted to use the Linux system for official government departments and state-owned companies. The measure was taken to prevent the US from damaging their interests through online methods.Linux uses open-source software, enabling users to change codes whenever they wish. Users can install two operating systems on their computers and use Linux to log into private accounts.In important institutions like hospitals and banks, computers storing important information should not connect to the Internet. This is the best way to avoid online threats.
