In defense of science, truth
Bi Xiaotian acquired a new habit recently. Every time he opens his web browser, he checks the entry of paraxylene (PX) on Baidu Baike. As one of the participants in correcting the Baidu entry in early April, the 22-year-old chemical engineering major student from Tsinghua University is proud to be part of the team defending the purity of science. Guarding the truth is their responsibility.Wang Runjia was the first Tsinghua University student to correct PX entry. The 20-year-old sophomore student of chemical engineering turned on his laptop as usual on April 2. As he browsed the social network, a screenshot posted by a friend caught his attention. “It showed a modification of the PX entry on Baidu Baike, in which the toxicity of PX had been changed from ‘low’ to ‘high’,” he says.After looking at the entry’s editing history in further detail, he found that the modification had been made several times. “The discussion of PX chemical plants has been ongoing for years. In class, we also learned related knowledge. Therefore I won’t let false information spread,” he says.Out of professional spirit, he identified himself as a student of chemical engineering at Tsinghua University, correcting the mistakes and urging Baidu to prevent malicious tampering with sensitive entries.To his surprise, his act didn’t end the discussion. Instead, it was the beginning of an editing battle. Bi remembers that night well. He checked the entry once an hour just to ensure its correctness. In 120 hours, the entry was edited 36 times. “We took turns to safeguard the truth,” he says. “I’m glad to see that I’m not the only one doing so. Students from other departments and universities stood by our side, presenting scientific facts to the general public.”Qian Weizhong, an associate professor of chemistry at Tsinghua University, praised the students for being responsible citizens when interviewed by People’s Daily. “They are doing so not because of industrial interests, but out of their consciousness to popularize science,” he said. “Such activity informs the general public with scientific facts, facilitating rational communication.”The students’ determination to protect the truth had a positive result. After locking the entry, Baidu Baike contacted Bi and asked him to write a introduction to PX. “For the entire afternoon on April 11, I worked on this task and sought professional assistance from my department.”Now, the new entry on PX is a well-organized, objective reflection of reliable facts. “It’s a good opportunity for us,” Bi says. As many people don’t have enough knowledge to judge the truthfulness of online information, when false information is spread, experts must step in to deny rumors and convey the right information, he says.
