Better urban life
FOR many young people, the dream of a lifetime is to travel the world, explore different cultures and landscapes, taste new foods and flavors, and listen to the distinctive sounds of international music and languages. Unfortunately, few young people have the money or freedom to make this dream come true. But if you can’t go out into the world, surely second best is to let the world come to you. And, this year’s Shanghai World Expo is exactly where that’s happening. From May 1 to October 31, there will be 194 countries and 50 international organizations on display at the 5-square-km Expo site. Seventy million domestic and international visitors are expected to visit it by the end of October. So, if you can go, you’ll be surrounded by people with a wide range of backgrounds, nations, and cultures. The Expo’s theme is "Better City, Better Life". The United Nations estimates that, this year, 55 percent of the world’s people will live in urban settings. This poses a dilemma for the world’s cities: How can they accommodate such a large number of people in a sustainable way? Can they remain places of natural beauty and cultural importance? Well, that’s the challenge the 2010 Expo participants are confronting in a variety of ways. Japan will show off an "eco-breathing" structure to power its building with natural energy like sunlight, rainwater and wind.  Germany’s pavilion is named "Balancity", which is described as a "balance between innovation and tradition, urbanity and nature, society and its individuals, work and recreation". The first themed Expo was held in 1933, and since that time World Expos have featured a participatory and interactive style. The Shanghai Expo is no exception. Young people will have the opportunity to take part in forums to discuss themes like new technology, green energy and conservation.  A trip to the Expo is guaranteed to be much less expensive than a trip around the world. Still, the costs can add up. However, young people can save money by purchasing group or student tickets, which may be available at reduced rates. Many of the participating pavilions offer free samples and treats for the visitors. In addition to handing out free chocolates, the Belgian pavilion will give away a free diamond each week to a visitor who can answer questions related to Belgium. If you’re planning to head to the Shanghai Expo between May and October, don’t forget to bring a camera, a notebook, and an open mind (and comfortable shoes). For nearly six months, representatives of the world are coming together to share their best and latest ideas for the future. It’s sure to be a memorable experience. 
