When nerds become the norm
Are we all geeks now?The word “geek” originally meant someone eccentric or outside of the mainstream. It gradually evolved to mean someone obsessed with an intellectual pursuit. A geek is enthusiastic about a hobby regardless of others’ opinions.Geeks’ obsessions include technology, science, gaming and fantasy-based fiction.Are you now wondering if you, too, are a geek? If so, congratulations — you are cool.A recent New York Times article says the boundary between geek culture and mainstream culture has never before been so blurred.Aside from the world’s obsession with Apple products, the article says there are numerous examples that show geek culture is increasingly mainstream. The article focuses on the US, but Chinese readers can easily relate to its premise.Whether it be TV series like The Big Bang Theory or comic-book movies like the new Guardians of the Galaxy, the article says once-marginalized bits of culture are increasingly popular with people of all stripes.One reason geek culture has become mainstream is because technology has become a ubiquitous part of nearly everyone’s daily life. In one sense, you could say the mainstream is just catching up to how geeks have lived for years.Everyone knowsThe New York Times article also points out that with the growth of online data sources, knowing obscure facts about certain subjects, a big signifier of geek status, has lost its value. The name of a certain constellation is only a Wikipedia entry away.“Growing up, pre-Internet, possession of knowledge was an identifier,” says Dave Goetsch, co-executive producer of The Big Bang Theory. “That is no longer true; the Internet flattens things out,” he told The New York Times.The word “geek” has lost its former pejorative meaning. Many from the millennial generation are excited about thinking and learning. They are comfortable with and proud to show their geeky side. From gadgets to social networks to video games, the decision not to embrace the newest technology is a choice to be out of the mainstream.“If you are not a geek, you are Luddite, and that is not cool,” Thomas Dolby, an arts professor at Johns Hopkins University, told The New York Times.Young people are drawn toward geek culture also because they want to be creative, says Zeynep Tufekci in a New York Times discussion panel on geek culture. Many geeks are motivated by the deep joy of building things, says Tufekci. For example, for many computer programmers, their work’s true draw is the pleasure of creating “worlds” through coding, “a delightful endeavor that combines deep intellectual challenges with the pleasures common to other creative activities such as art, cooking or music.”
