Enjoy creative inventions
Every November, Time magazine picks out what it calls “The 25 Best Inventions” of the year. These are the things that have made our lives different in one way or another. Here, TEENS has chosen three of the most interesting ones on the list.Ember MugIt’s hard to always keep coffee at the right temperature, especially in winter. It’s too hot to drink at first, but before we know it, it gets too cold and loses all its taste. According to Time, the perfect level of warmth for a cup of coffee only lasts for 37 seconds, which makes the Ember Mug a great invention. It keeps your coffee or tea at a certain temperature, anywhere between 48 C and 62 C, once you set it through a smartphone app.Tasty One TopTV cooking shows make it look so easy, but it’s almost impossible to get the recipes to look the same as how the professionals make them. However, the Tasty One Top DIY cooking companion is here to help. Developed by Buzzfeed, the cooker can be connected to a smartphone app, which has more than 1,700 recipes and videos. You choose a recipe and the app will let the cooker know what to do. For example, it’ll tell you when to turn your steak or when to add certain ingredients.JiboSmart speakers from companies like Amazon and Xiaomi have added a lot of fun to our lives. Despite this, they’re still just faceless speakers. However, Jibo, developed by MIT professor Cynthia Breazeal, has brought smart technology to life. Said to be “the world’s first social robot for the home”, Jibo looks like a cartoon character with a cylindrical body, a round head and a voice that sounds like a 10-year-old boy. Inside its “head”, there are various sensors and cameras, which allow it to recognize faces and speech. Jibo will move to face you whenever you talk to it, according to Time. It can also set alarms, remind you of important things, tell you the weather and read news or messages from your friends and family. It can even act as a photographer by taking photos for you at parties, according to Digital Trends.
