Gaming East and West
VIDEO games have never been that cool in the West. For years they’ve been strongly associated with the teenage boy demographic-not great for the image. But thanks to new technology (Nintendo’s interactive Wii, for instance) and clever marketing, they are now nearly sexy.The kinds of video games people play in the West are different to those in China. Here, Internet-based MMOs (massively multiplayer online) games are popular. In the West, people are more into their consoles. Since people tend to stick with what they know, there’s been little market crossover-until now.China’s leading online game developer, Changyou, is now looking westward. And it’s currently in the final testing stages of Dragon Oath, an MMO designed for the US market. It’s already been tested in Europe where MMOs haven’t been played. But analysts have noticed a shift towards online gaming: "The Western markets are changing; it is a console-driven market but I think MMO games are the next wave," Atul Bagga, an analyst at research company ThinkEquity, told The New York Times. "E.A. and Take Two Interactive are strong on the console side, but online gaming is a very different animal." What this means is that MMOs can be played on many platforms-cellphones, Internet terminals and some consoles (for instance, Nintendo’s Wii connected to the Internet). If the US market catches on it will be a lucrative move. In China, 46 million gamers spent $1.7 billion (12 billion yuan) on online games in 2007, up 71 percent from 2006. "China’s spending on games is up thanks to their booming economy," Lisa Cosmas Hanson, a gaming expert, told Reuters. "Fourteen million hard-core Chinese gamers play online games more than 22 hours per week. They play online, LAN, and single-player offline PC games in the country’s 185,000 Internet cafes and increasingly on their PCs at home, thanks to falling prices and greater disposable income."Cultural problemsOne of the draws of online gaming is the potential to play against thousands of others from all over the world. This is a very different game to simply switching on a PlayStation and playing a buddy. Consequently, the online game sector is growing rapidly: revenues are expected to grow 21 percent to more than $13 billion (89 billion yuan) in 2010, according to Samsung Securities.This all sounds very promising for Changyou, but there’s a hitch, and it’s cultural. "The issue with most Chinese gaming companies is that the games they have are very Asian-themed. So, the Western audience finds it difficult to associate with," ThinkEquity’s Bagga told The New York Times. Chinese companies will have to spend more time marketing their products in places that are not used to Chinese games and culture.Meanwhile, back in China, there’s been the opposite shift: people are choosing game consoles. According to the 6th Annual Review & Forecast Report, gamers are increasingly spending their money on consoles, rather than downloading the mostly cost-free MMO games. Console sales jumped 75 percent in 2006-2007, meaning 2.48 million units were sold during that period. "In spite of a regulation that has banned the sale of game consoles in China since 2000, gamers are flocking to stores that sell illegally imported Wii, Xbox and PS3 machines to join the excitement of console gaming," said Hanson. "While these consoles are expensive for the average Chinese consumer, gamers are willing to spend money on them to supplement their online gaming experience."
