Students meet cyber challenges
The cyber security competition last Saturday was the fourth sponsored by the Neusoft Institute of Information Technology (NINT) in Guangdong. It gave more than 40 students a chance to put their hacking skills to good use and to earn a little pocket money in the process. The winning team received 5,000 yuan.Chinese campuses are home to many students who spend free time exercising their programming skills and, every now and then, getting into a little mischief. They gather in online forums, share tricks of the trade, and prepare themselves for a career in cyber security – either as a "good guy", or as a "bad guy".Li Guang’en, a 17-year-old freshman at NINT, supposes he is one of the good guys. During the competition, he and his teammates raced to build a firewall on their server before attacking their competitors. Every bug had to be fixed. Every crack sealed. Passwords had to be rewritten."A one-second delay can lead to complete failure," said Li afterward.Meanwhile, Huang Jiehua, a 19-year-old junior at Zhongshan Torch Polytechnic, showed that he was quite adept at being a hacker. He downloaded software from hacker websites and turned it on his team’s competitors. "There are so many tools that one needs to have a package to make the best use of them," said Huang.Community lifeMany students never get to exercise their skills in a formal competition. Instead, they do so on campus servers and, sometimes, on corporate and government ones.Peng Peng, a 19-year-old junior at a university in Zhejiang, is a member of the "Chinese Recluse Hacker Union", a close-knit online community of programmers. He needs to log into the forum everyday and get assignments from leaders through e-mail or QQ messages."Sometimes it is simple, like decoding a computer game, or adding more functions to a piece of chat software," said Peng. "But sometimes we are ordered to attack a server."When he receives such an order, he quickly loads attack software and works together with his teammates – netizens he has never met in the real world, and there’s hardly any money involved.Li, meanwhile, has exercised his programming skills by managing a server for more than three years. "My server was attacked by hackers several times, so I have had to learn how to deal with these invasions," Li said.Career opportunitiesThanks to the growing importance of cyber security, both at the government and commercial level, many of these students will find work in the field upon graduation. For instance, after last year’s cyber security competition at NINT, two of the top competitors landed jobs with the national security units.HR reps and other experts also sang the praises of this year’s competitors. "They performed better than we expected," said a Hainan national security officer. "They were familiar with the operation system, smart when looking for leaks, and calm when facing tight challenges."
