Are you sitting comfortably?
We forget exactly when we became the slaves of computers. Until a few years ago we got information from the Internet by using stationary computers. They sat on a table while everything around them, humans included, moved with relative flexibility.But as smartphones and tablets — computers developed for their mobility — become more common in our lives, they’re changing not just the way we communicate with other people, but the way our bodies relate to our surroundings.Steelcase, a US office furniture manufacturer, has caught on to this trend, which is proving especially popular at work. The company realized that its product designs would need to adapt to new mobile-enabled workplaces. So it conducted a study of office workers — 2,000 of them across 11 countries — to see how they relate to the many devices they now rely on to get their work done.Through observations, interviews and snapshots of people at work, Steelcase concluded that the way we compute is changing the way we sit. The company identified nine new postures we had never seen before, all of which are “driven by this new breed of devices”.The drawThe often-seen “lean back” experience of tablet reading, done in a chair. This posture requires good back support from a chair, especially for the head and neck.The multi-deviceYou’re using your laptop and your phone at the same time. This requires good arm rests, provided by either tabletop or chair.The textYou’re sitting at your desk, using your handheld device to read, e-mail and, yes, text. Arm rests aren’t required, but they’re ideal.The cocoonThis is a scrunched-up body posture usually reserved for reading, though it can be used for typing as well. The sitters lean back, pull up their legs, bend their knees, and draw their devices close to their bodies. This is, Steelcase notes, a posture used more often by women than men.The swipeThe sitter leans over his or her desk, directly over a touchscreen device. This posture is pretty much exclusive to tablet or smartphone use.The smart leanA compromise between the lean-back posture of “the draw” and a more standard sitting style, this posture allows the sitter to check his or her smartphone in a relaxed posture while also retaining a bit of privacy when it comes to what’s being shown on the screen. It’s especially popular during meetings, or any occasion when there are other people around.The tranceYou’re absorbed in whatever you’re doing, leaning into your table and toward your computer, with arms placed either on the chair’s armrests or on your desk. This posture often involves slouching.The take-it-inThis can also be called the “all the way back” and involves nearly fully reclining in one’s chair. It’s popular in front of large, high-resolution monitors that allow people to see the screen from a distance.The “strunch”This is “stretching out” and “hunching” at the same time: When people get tired they tend to push their monitor or device away from them and find a new screen angle by slouching down toward their desks. They then prop themselves up with their arms on their desk, sometimes propping their chin up with a free hand.
