Testing the Expo
Practice makes perfect – at least, that’s what organizers of the 2010 Shanghai World Expo hope. Last Tuesday, the Expo Garden opened on a trial basis for six days so that operational problems could be fixed in time for its official grand opening.A total of 1.1 million visitors showed up during the trail run. But more than 70 million guests are expected to visit the Expo between May 1 and October 31. Shanghai is expected to set a new Expo record for most attendance.However, the public’s excitement is putting pressure on organizers. Pedestrian management has become a major issue. Organizers are now scrambling to address it.It was common for visitors to line up for hours just to get inside some of the most popular pavilions. During the first days of the trial run, surging crowds even caused the temporary closure of several pavilions, according to China Daily.On Tuesday, the first day of trial operations, chaos was reported when reservation machines malfunctioned and opening times for some pavilions were changed. The organizers are now trying out using volunteers to help ensure reservations are made smoothly.The reservation service will be used to save visitors time, but guests will only be allowed to schedule one visit among the China Pavilion and the five theme parks. Visitors can schedule a total of five visits to all of the other pavilions. For those pavilions at which they have not made a reservation, visitors must wait in line for entry.Transportation to and from the Expo was also monitored during the trial run. The  Shanghai Evening Post reported that over 60 percent of visitors took the subway to get to Expo Garden. Although 42 special bus routes were set, few visitors chose to use them. Organizers are now encouraging visitors to take advantage of the buses when they attend the Expo.The Bureau of Shanghai World Expo Coordination has also announced that only visitors with specially marked tickets may attend the Expo on May 1-3. Those with standard day tickets will be denied entry. Other specially designated days include October 1-7 and the week preceding the closure of the Expo. The remainder of the Expo’s 184 days are open to anyone with a standard ticket.See the world in three daysNi Wenhao, a 23-year-old Shanghai Expo volunteer, is the author of the popular online post “Three-Day Tour Tips for Expo Visitors”. Here’s his advice on making the most of a three-day trip to the Expo.Day OneMorning: Celebration Square – Expo Center – Theme PavilionsAfternoon: China Pavilion – China’s Joint Provincial Pavilion – Isreal – Saudi ArabiaEvening: Lebanon – Iran – DPRK – Japan – Republic of KoreaDay TwoMorning: Thailand – Australia – Singapore – New Zealand – United NationsAfternoon: Spain – Switzerland – France – Germany – USEvening: South Africa – Egypt – Russia – Italy – UKDay ThreeMorning: China Shipbuilding Industry Corp. Pavilion – Private Enterprises Joint Pavilion – London’s UBPA ExhibitAfternoon: Pavilion of the Future – Expo Plaza – China Railway PavilionEvening: Coca-Cola Pavilion – Space Home Pavilion – State Grid Pavilion – Expo Museum
