Go high-tech this holiday
If you’ve been searching for a reason to pick up that latest gadget, then what better time than Christmas? There’s no shortage of innovative, forward-thinking and *futuristic products on the market today, as technology takes center stage on many people’s festive wish lists. Here, we offer a festive gadget guide that will help you take a closer look at four of tech’s hottest categories.Virtual realityProbably the most exciting tech development of recent times, virtual reality (VR) has arrived, with *ample options available to the consumer who’s searching for an extra dose of high-tech fun this Christmas. The cheapest way to get a high-end VR experience comes courtesy of Sony. Its PlayStation VR doesn’t require a tricked-out PC or expensive phone – it works with the Playstation 4 console and comes with a few great games in its library. There are some accessories you can purchase to enhance the experience, but if you’ve already got a PS4 you can enter the world of VR for just $400 (2780 yuan). 2016 has been the year of VR and as such many alternatives to Sony’s creation exist. High-end offerings like the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift, as well as mobile options like Samsung’s Gear VR, will get your head in the game.Wireless headphonesCombining ease of use with the ability to move *uninhibited around your home, gym or workplace, wireless headphones just make sense. And there are plenty of *viable options to suit any budget. The Bose QuietComfort 35 wireless headphones are definitely worth a test drive, though. The full-size, around-ear Bluetooth headphones feature active noise cancellation and double as a headset for making phone calls. They’ve even earned the Editor’s Choice award at Cnet.com and can be snapped up for less than $400 online. Beats has worked its way firmly into the market and its Studio Wireless headphones are a popular choice, especially as you can now find them much cheaper than their original $379 asking price by searching around online.Digital camerasWhile your phone is a worthy *sidekick, there’s no substitute for a real camera when it comes to taking the perfect picture. And these days you can get quality specifications in a package that’s almost as small as your smartphone. The *sleek design of the Fujifilm X70, $699 (4,850 yuan), makes it the perfect companion, or you could go *retro with the Olympus PEN-F ($1,200) that offers old school looks alongside cutting edge technology. Domestically, it’s worth checking out Xiaomi’s mirrorless Yi M1 for a more affordable option. With a high-end 20-megapixel sensor and the ability to host multiple lenses, it’s available from just 2,199 yuan.SmartwatchesWatches, thanks to the *advent of the mobile phone, were in danger of becoming a little bit *redundant. Not anymore though, now that watches can more or less act as a second screen for your smartphone. The quest for fitness has also helped the watch industry push forward, with timepieces like the Nixon Mission Smartwatch ($400) now on the market. Built for adventure, but with a stylish *exterior, it runs Google’s Android Wear software, but is *compatible with iPhones. FitBit has been a leader in the sporty wearable field, and its new swim-proof Fitbit Flex 2 ($130) represents the best in the way of today’s fitness bands. It has a removable tracker that fits into other bands, bracelets or *pendants – so you can continue to track your movements a little more *conspicuously.
