How to start-up in style
Bill Gates is still a big name for young entrepreneurs. But young go-getters have found new icons among people their own age.Millionaires under 30 years old are grabbing the spotlight. Their success proves that being creative and fearless may be more important than experience when it comes to starting your own business.Some of these young tycoons made fast and bold moves while others applied themselves slowly and steadily. Both ways lead to Rome. Here are two young business icons who represent different start-up styles.Mark Zuckerburg, 27, creator of FacebookLast year, Zuckerburg was named Time magazine’s Person of the Year. His personal wealth was estimated to be $13.5 billion (87 billion yuan).Be far-seeing. That’s the magic that can make a “small” idea evolve to be a “revolutionary” one.In the movie The Social Network, Zuckerburg created a website which became Facebook to meet girls. But in reality, Zuckerburg did it for a bigger mission.When he was a student at Harvard University, Zuckerburg spent a lot of time discussing with his friends how the world was going to change over the next “five, 10, or 20, years”.They were looking ahead and were able to foresee a trend.That’s how they predicted the coming of an age when people would be open to share information and socialize online.Move fast and break things. Be bold in making decisions.“Unless you are breaking some stuff you are not moving fast enough,” Zuckerburg explained the core value of Facebook to businessinsider.com.He pointed it out that entrepreneurs need to learn that making mistakes is OK.Launch projects quickly, get feedback quickly and make *trade-offs and improvement quickly.Zuckerburg said that entrepreneurs should break rules. Forget the conventional way of doing things, even if it’s considered “best practice”.He told businessinsider.com: “You never build something great by doing it the same way that other people have done it.”John Vechey, 28, co-founder of PopCap GamesThe company was set up in 2000. The maker of Zuma and Plants Vs Zombies earned $100 million last year.It’s not necessary to dream big or to grow fast. Be clear about your passion and stick to it. At the early stage of Vechey’s start-up, consultants came in and kept asking: “What’s your mission statement?” Vechey said: “Make great games.” And they would say that wasn’t a mission statement, not a big one such as “creating the casual gaming industry”.But Vechey is clear that “making great games” is exactly what he wants to do. He didn’t force himself to dream big and to expand the company too fast.Even now when PopCap has grown up to be a giant in the industry, Vechey still refuses the idea of leaping from game development to game publishing.“We’re more like a Pixar. Why don’t they distribute movies? They exist to create good movies. That’s what we are. It’s our DNA,” Vechey told venturebeat.com.A product will be either a priceless perfected one or a *worthless mediocre one. 
