Today's grads create their own jobs
In America, successful young start-ups with no offices, addresses or expertise.After graduating from college with thousands of dollars in student loans, Scott Gerber moved back in with his parents in New York. He then took out more loans to start a company, but it went broke."I felt demoralized and humiliated," he says.So Gerber used his last $700 to start another company.With Sizzle It, Gerber vowed to find a niche, reduce overhead and be more frugal. The company was profitable the first year.Gerber, 27, then started the Young Entrepreneur Council to create a shift from a résumé-driven society to one where people create their own jobs.The council consists of 80-plus business owners across America, ages 17 to 33. Members include Becker, co-founder of Invite Media, a firm recently acquired by a Google unit; and Patzer, who sold Mint.com to Intuit for $170 million.The council serves as a help desk and mentoring hotline for entrepreneurs. Council members will monthly answer 30 to 40 of their questions in business publications like The Wall Street Journal, American Express Open Forum, and on numerous small business Web sites.Council members assert that young people can start businesses with little or without money or experience. But roughly half of all new businesses fail within the first five years. And the entrepreneurial life is filled with risks, stresses and sacrifices.But American unemployment is high. Only 24.4 percent of 2010 graduates who applied for a job had one waiting for them after graduation. Entrepreneurship can be a viable path, not a renegade choice.Thanks to the Internet, there are fewer upfront costs for entrepreneurs.For $300 a year, Gerber rented an address from ManhattanVirtual¬Office.com. It saved him $100,000 and gave Sizzle It credibility; his clients include Procter & Gamble and the Gap.Open-source software can reduce or eliminate the need for tech support."All you need today is a laptop, patience and willingness," says Kabani, a council member and founder of Marketing Zen, a digital marketing firm with yearly revenue in the seven figures. She hired all of her employees online.But start-ups do need financing. So Gerber is starting the Gen Y Fund, from which young entrepreneurs can seek funding.The goal is to find practicable, marketable business ideas.Gerber has never attended business class. "I e-mailed people in my circle and figured who knew what I needed to know," he said.Lack of experience can be an asset. Ms. Hanger says being young helps attract advertisers like New Balance and Juicy Couture to HerCampus.com, which started turning a profit.For many of these entrepreneurs, success didn’t happen overnight. It took Bahn years to get his company, BeatTheGMAT.com off the ground. Now it generates near seven figures in revenue.
