Micro blogs’ creative magicians
“Qin (Dear friend), will you stay at home and go shopping online this weekend? Qinmen (dear friends), you should guard the safety of your online accounts and develop good habits. We’ve summarized nine points of advice for you. Have a happy weekend online shopping.”Does the lively tone sound familiar? It is not an advertisement for an online mall. Instead, it is a reminder from Ping’an Beijing, the official micro blog of Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau.The micro blog, which carries information about public safety issues and offers helpful tips, topped the list of the top 10 government-run micro blogs on Sina Weibo in 2011.It was composed by Zhao Feng, who’s in charge of the micro blog and eight colleagues on his team. Many of them are university grads in their early 20s.The team works in shifts to release information and reply to questions around the clock.Government agencies have been encouraged to use micro blogs to better engage with the public. New jobs as government micro blog account operators have emerged. You don’t require a specific major or degree.However industry experts say that the seemingly simple job requires more skills than one would imagine - good writing and Internet skills are not enough.Cao Guowei, CEO of Sina.com said that government micro blogs have a relaxed tone.“An operator should not only know how to disseminate authorized information in a timely manner, but also be innovative and easygoing,” said Cao.Choosing the right words and correct angle when an incident happens is important and difficult, says Wang Sixin, a law professor at the Communication University of China.While government spokesmen maintain an official tone, micro blogs have to be “user-friendly”, entertaining and informative. “You musn’t talk down to people,” said Zhao, whose team use everyday, colloquial language.Zhao and his team deal with all sorts of questions, from how to find a lost relative, to how to feed a dog. They have to be tolerant of criticism and have never deleted any comment.Besides Taobao style, micro blog writing styles such as VANCL are common on government blogs to attract reposts or comments.Xiamen Local Taxation Bureau’s account adopted the tone of TV drama Legend of Zhen Huan to gain clicks.A post said: “Many things could not be clearly explained within 140 words. All Xiaozhu (an address for concubines), please keep our site in mind. It’ll be super if you pay us a visit now and then.”While creativity is sought by both followers and operators, experts and career advisors say that it is improper to use shocking or bad language.Zhu Huaxin, secretary-general of the People’s Daily Online Public Opinion Monitoring Center, advised operators not to go over the top. Operators have to be accurate and avoid jumping to conclusions. “You should use colloquial language but avoid being glib,” he said.
