The 6 ways to waste time on the Internet
Living a Fantasy LifeWhile fantasy football might have little to do with the real world, it certainly takes real time to attend to your team. Not only do you have to watch all the games, but then you have to trade your players. You have to analyze your stats and plan accordingly, spending large amounts of time on the painstaking details so that you can win a pot of cash and the admiration of your friends.The  SpreeThe great thing about a video web is that it has everything. The awful thing about a video web is that it has everything. I mean, you go looking for George Clooney ’s Oscar acceptance speech and somehow you end up clicking on everyone of those "related video" until you’ve worked your way to the collected works of the fake Tom Cruise. With such a video web you never intend to spend that much time, but you end up "one more clip"-ing yourself to death.The SNS FugueOh, SNS, we couldn’t do anything without you. But I’m not talking about your normal visits during work hours. There is a different, darker SNS that comes out late at night, when you start searching for all of your ex-girlfriends and clicking to see if any of them have changed their last names recently. This is the dark side, and it will attack you and make you feel like a Saturday on the couch with scattered tissues lying around your nearly lifeless body.The Online Shopping CageLook, there’s a sale on Taobao. But there’s always a sale on Taobao. Oh, what about EBay? There’s always something you need there, too. Don’t forget that shower curtain with the pink bunnies and deer on it that you saw at the store and wanted to buy but didn’t and now it’s discontinued and you just have to have it. As long as you remember the security code on the back of your credit card, you’re going to find your way there. Oh, yes you are. Yes. You. Are.The Search Engine HoleEver go look up something on a search engine, something totally innocuous like Elizabeth Taylor, and it kicks off an awful journey that leaves you bleary-eyed three hours later? It’s so easy.Reading BlogsWow, you really got all the way down here to the end? What the hell are you doing reading this on the weekend. Go see your family or read a book or watch Pirates of the Caribbean 4D or something. There’s a whole world out there!
