Is it the end of an era?
When Steve Jobs stepped down as Apple’s chief executive last Wednesday the world knew that it was the end of an era.Since then, discussion of his resignation has lapsed into hysteria. After all, he is the man who rescued Apple from near-death experience.After he and Steve Wozniak financed the original Apple Computer with 1,300 dollars (8,296 yuan) in 1976, Jobs left Apple when he lost a boardroom showdown in 1985. When Jobs came back in 1996, Apple was a corporate minnow and seemed headed for oblivion. Now, 15 years later, Apple has become one of the most valuable companies in the world.If you ask people what Steve Jobs is best remembered for, most will name a particular product: the iPod and the iTunes Store hastened the move from CDs to downloadable singles; the iPhone turned the cell phone into an uninterrupted online pipeline of content; and the iPad opened a convenient, portable window into the growing trove of media online.None of these devices or services were the first of its kind. Indeed, they all arrived years after their pioneering competitors – but they were the first to be embraced by the masses. And that’s one of Jobs’ unique contributions to Apple – a phenomenal sense of timing – an ability to recognize when the public may finally be ready to adopt such a technology.Jobs is also famously fanatical about design. When the rest of the industry was building computers as grey, rectangular metal boxes, he was looking for design metaphors. For a time he thought the Mac should be like a Porsche.In that sense he is the opposite of the MBA-trained executives. “The cure for Apple is not cost-cutting,” he said in 1996, when the company was on the rocks. “The cure for Apple is to innovate its way out of its current predicament.”Another time he said: “When you’re a carpenter making a beautiful chest of drawers, you’re not going to use a piece of plywood on the back, even though it faces the wall and nobody will ever see it.”His love of good design has always been the most striking aspect of Jobs’ celebrated speeches introducing new Apple products. As he introduced the iMac, iPhone and iPad, words like “beautiful”, “amazing” and “awesome” *tumbled out. For once they didn’t sound like corporation-speak. He spoke from the heart.Granted, Apple’s success has hindered the companies whose ideas didn’t jibe with Jobs’ notion of what the public wanted. For example, subscription music services struggled for years because Jobs disliked them and Apple’s iPods didn’t support them.On the other hand, Apple wouldn’t be where it is today without Jobs’ singular vision – as well as the company’s ability to translate it into their products.Last Wednesday’s announcement wasn’t surprising, considering Jobs’ long struggle with pancreatic cancer.It was, however, a reminder that the Steve Jobs era won’t last forever. Luckily, he will remain chairman of Apple’s board. Here’s hoping that it’s not over yet.
