File-sharing in the balance
Millions of Internet users were shocked on Sunday as access was blocked to the unauthorized music and video files on VeryCD, a popular peer-to-peer file-sharing website. Links to online videos were automatically diverted to other web pages. As the State Administration of Radio Film and Television looks to wipe out piracy on the Internet, file-sharing websites like VeryCD are facing an uncertain future. According to the administration, 168 illegal video websites were closed last year. In peer-to-peer sharing, you use a file-sharing software program, eMule, for example, to *locate computers that have the file you want. Other users can also download the files they want from your computer’s hard drive through the software. Such websites are very popular among young people but have copyright problems.The events of Sunday have also affected Internet users in foreign countries. “I have been in Italy for two years. Most of the Chinese books I read are from VeryCD,” said Jia Lifang, 24, a graduate majoring in fashion design at Istituto Carlo Secoli in Milan. “It’s hard to get Chinese books here.” But some industry experts say it is unlikely to see a complete closedown of the website. “Perhaps removing the illegal download resources is a *makeshift way to help the website avoid being shut down completely like BTChina and Icefish, which provided download services,” said Meng Wei, a file-sharing website analyst at iResearch Consulting Group.Many file-sharing websites have looked for new ways to host content following the recent piracy crackdown. Youku.com got revenue by producing its own TV dramas like Old Boy last year. Qiyi.com and Sohu.com have claimed to have bought authorized video content from foreign companies. Users can watch a limited amount of imported programs for free. “Providing copyrighted content is an unstoppable trend. We will introduce *authorized content to users,” said Huang Yimeng, founder and CEO of VeryCD, on his blog. “But there is still a lot of content that we cannot offer as legally downloadable, which is a pity.” Copyright protection poses legal headaches all over the world. In the US, YouTube has signed agreements with Warner Music and CBS to provide authorized content. In the US, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act states that it is illegal to download from file-sharing sites without permission from copyright owner, according to He Anni, a lawyer at Lianggao Law Firm in Beijing.He said that if you want to use something on a website, including a document, music or clip, you need to find information about permission to use, download, distribute, or reproduce. Most websites have a “Terms of Use” page that explains how you are allowed to use their stuff. Watch for free onlineThe recent crackdown on illegal online content has proved to be a real headache for p2p (peer-to-peer) fans. So, where can you go to watch all your favorite American TV dramas and Hollywood films for free online?  Qiyi.comThe website has claimed that it only provides licensed content, including movies, TV dramas, news footage, *variety shows and cartoons. Currently, only three US TV dramas are available: Desperate Housewives, Cougar Town and Grey’s Anatomy.Tv.sohu.com The Chinese news portal’s TV and film channel has been providing licensed content for years. They recently imported some hit episodes of American TV dramas, including Gossip Girl, The Big Bang Theory and Nikita.Google.cn/musicGoogle has licensing agreements with labels such as Warner, EMI and Sony, as well as Universal Music Group and the Music Copyright Society of China. So, users can download authorized music files from here for free.  
