AI takes big step forward
For many of us, it’s easy to tell if it’s a computer that’s calling you on your phone. Its voice makes it obvious before it has the chance to finish telling you that you can get a free loan or that you are invited for a customer survey. It’s also easy to hang up – it’s just a computer, after all.But Google Duplex, an artificial intelligence (AI) voice assistant, has shown that computers are able to “conduct a natural conversation with a human over the phone and complete simple real-world tasks,” reported tech site Wired.On May 8 during its annual developer conference Google I/O, the company showed Duplex making phone calls and having full conversations. First, it called a hair salon  to make an appointment, before calling a restaurant to make a reservation.As CNET noted, not only has Google changed the typical computerized voice, but the company has taken “extra steps to disguise the system to sound more like a human”.Duplex comes with imperfections – “umms” and “uhhs” – and uses typical human phrasing such as “Oh, gotcha.”As a result, “the receptionists on the other end of the call have no idea they are conversing back and forth with AI,” commented CNET.Some see Duplex as quite a breakthrough – it will be able to help humans cut down on boring tasks. But for the rest, it “straddles a fine line between being convenient and deceptive,” as Wired wrote. People have a hard enough time knowing whether news is real or fake, or what photos are to be trusted. And now, we may not be able to trust our own ears.Google also mentioned that soon, Duplex will be able to imitate the owner’s voice. While this is a great step forward in AI, it also raises many concerns. For example, students could use Duplex to call their school to pretend they’re sick by using their mother’s or father’s voice.Since people are shocked by the fact that a machine can imitate a human so well, Google has promised that in the future the voice will tell the listener that it’s not a real person.According to Alexander Rudnicky, a researcher of human-computer speech interaction at Carnegie Mellon University, technology like this is something people are only going to become more aware of. “We just assimilate this interaction into our culture,” he told Wired.
