Solving great space mystery
Monkey King, the hero in the classic Chinese novel Journey to the West, is making headlines again. On Nov 30, China’s Dark Matter Particle Explorer, which is named after Monkey King’s Chinese name Wukong, found mysterious signals in the universe that may help scientists learn more about dark matter, according to Xinhua News Agency.“This is the first time scientists have found such detailed and precise signals,” Chang Jin, vice director of the Purple Mountain Observatory of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told Xinhua.Dark matter is a type of hypothetical matter in the universe. Scientists believe that it influences the movement of galaxies. However, no one has ever directly observed it.Swiss astronomer Fritz Zwicky first used the term “dark matter” in 1933, when he spotted something very unusual. Some galaxies that Zwicky saw were spinning so fast that they should have scattered into all corners of the universe, but they didn’t. He realized there must have been something else there that had a strong enough gravitational pull to hold everything together. He called it “dark matter”.In one sense, dark matter is like the wind: we can’t see it, but we know it’s there.Finding out more about dark matter could help us understand how the universe began, but being able to do so isn’t easy. Scientists believe that when two dark matter particles crash together, they form new particles and produce high amounts of energy and heat. This is why explorers like Wukong are sent to find such particles.Indeed, “Wu” means “understanding” and “kong” means “void.” The nickname symbolizes the main goal of DAMPE’s mission, which is to understand dark matter better.Since its launch in 2015, DAMPE has already recorded 3.5 billion high-energy particles, reported Newsweek. And according to Science, the satellite has a lifespan of five years, which means it still has three more years to “understand the void”. “DAMPE has opened a new window for observing the high-energy universe, unveiling new physical phenomena beyond our current understanding,” Chang told Xinhua.
