Not everyone’s taste
Have you ever imagined that one day everything your body needs will come in powder form and all you have to do is add water?Soylent, a drink developed by a group of US engineers, claims it can do just that. It can provide your body with all the nutrients it needs and for as long as you want, you don’t have to eat any other food. This April, Soylent shipped its first batch of products to consumers in the US.Robert Rhinehart is the 25-year-old co-founder and chief executive of the firm selling the drink. He found himself spending too much time and money searching for nutritious meals while he was working in San Francisco.An electrical engineering graduate, Rhinehart began to consider food as an engineering problem. “You need amino acids and lipids, not milk itself,” he was quoted as saying by The New Yorker: “You need carbohydrates, not bread.” He began to think that food was an inefficient way of getting what he needed to survive.He took a break from work and taught himself about nutrition and nutritional biochemistry. Eventually, Rhinehart came up with a list of nutrients required for survival. Then, he ordered them off the Internet — mostly in powder or pill form — and poured everything into a blender, with some water. The result, according to The New Yorker article, looked like gooey lemonade. Then, Rhinehart started living on it. In several interviews, Rhinehart said Soylent changed his life and made him healthier than ever before.Fast, but no funRhinehart hopes his product can be a game changer in the food business. But Soylent may potentially be good for the environment, too. According to a Guardian article, food production is responsible for 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. But to completely replace our daily meal with a bland-tasting drink? Not many people are enthusiastic about the idea.After all, most of us see food as not merely fuel, but also a pleasure. New York Times writer Farhad Manjoo lived largely on Soylent for a week and a half. He declares that “everything about Soylent screams function, not fun,” deeming it “the most joyless new technology to hit the world since we first laid eyes on MS-DOS.”Lizzie Widdicombe, who wrote The New Yorker’s article on Rhinehart, also tried out Soylent. With Soylent, you “cruise” through the day. If you are working at your computer and feel hungry, you don’t have to stop for lunch. You can always be productive.And here lies Soylent’s downside, Widdicombe says: “Meals provide punctuation to our lives: we’re constantly recovering from them, anticipating them, riding the emotional ups and downs of a good or a bad sandwich. With a bottle of Soylent on your desk, time stretches before you, featureless and a little sad.”
