Battle of smartphones
It has been a frantic fortnight for gadget lovers and the Apple iPhone 5 launch was the grand finale of the whole shebang. But not without a brush of disappointment. Let’s face it, a product has yet to appear that could revolutionize the smartphone landscape as the iPhone did when it launched years ago.The lack of surprises this season seems to place the industry in a more balanced position in which customers are spoiled by a plethora of handsets options.Apple plays it safe, againAt first glance there’s not much difference between the new iPhone 5 and its previous products. But there have been a few tweaks. It’s slightly longer, sporting a 4-inch screen with a 16:9 aspect ratio that allows you to watch widescreen videos without those annoying black bars on both sides.The latest iPhone is much more slender too. At only 7.6mm thick, Apple claims it is the thinnest in the world. The glass back has been replaced by an all-metal shell with a two-tone effect. The connector is also smaller, which is bad news for those who just spent US$1,000 (6,300 yuan) on a new dock .But as this shows, hardware can hardly differentiate rivals anymore. It’s up to the software to run the show.A big feature discussed alongside the iPhone 5 at its launch was the iOS 6 – the latest version of Apple’s mobile operating system. It offers a selection of new features, most notably a replacement of Google’s mapping software. Apple’s own take on maps provides turn-by-turn navigation and local business information. An enhanced version of Siri the robot is also featured.Finnish paradoxNokia was a major casualty of the iPhone revolution. The mobile phone giant, allying with Microsoft, is trying hard to compete with its new generation of flagship smartphones – the “Lumia” series.In terms of hardware, Nokia’s Lumia 920 seems to match the iPhone on every aspect.Its 4.5 inch screen is 0.5 inch bigger than Apple’s counterpart, and a 8.7 megapixel rear camera beats the iPhone5 by 0.7. Both handsets have adopted dual-core predecessors, but Nokia wins the upper hand on battery life. Wireless charging technology is seen as a highlight.Despite seemingly outperforming its rival, Nokia’s share price plummeted 16 percent following the release of its new gadget, according to AP. Investors said that the Finnish manufacturer still lacks a “wow” factor.The Lumia’s software might be to blame. Supporting only around 100,000 apps, compared with more than 500,000 for Android and iPhones, Windows phones have so far not been well received in the market, and the negligible edge it has on hardware could not wield its full power to impress customers and outshine the competition.Moreover, adverts allegedly demonstrating the phone’s stunning camera were later found to be based on photos shot on professional equipment. This almost ensured that Nokia’s return to the smartphone arena is yet to come.Galaxy on the riseSamsung’s vice is exterior design. Sticking to the Galaxy series’ plastic shell, it doesn’t quite have the luxurious, reliable feel of the iPhone or Lumia. At 4.8 inches, the Galaxy S III’s screen is chunky, almost crossing the boundary into tablets. Whereas a big screen is useful for watching movies and playing 3D games, it is less convenient to hold and carry around.Following its dual-core predecessor, Galaxy S III’s quad-core version makes it the most powerful smartphone yet. The problem is that most apps don’t yet take advantage of four-core chips, meaning that for the most part that powerful processor is just sucking away at battery life.As an Android raider, Galaxy S III’s new 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich system lets you drag live widgets to your home screens, showing you live information without having to boot up an app. That’s a feature Android owners regularly flaunt in front of iPhone fans, whose home screens don’t offer this level of customization.
