Fizzy truth about soda
Do sugary drinks cause *obesity? The US New York State Supreme Court’s Justice Milton Tingling isn’t convinced. Last month he dismissed New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s proposed ban on oversized soda drinks.While we know that sugary drinks are loaded with calories, which are believed to cause weight gain, many questions remain. For example, is diet soda any better? Does the carbon dioxide in fizzy drinks damage our bones? Here are the facts behind some claims made about sugary drinks and how they affect our health.The claim: Diet soda is better for you than regular soda.The reality: “Diet soda is no panacea”, Lisa R. Young, a professor of nutrition at New York University, told The Huffington Post.Sugar-free doesn’t mean healthy. In fact, the “false sweetness” of diet soda can be quite problematic, according to Young. The theory is that the brain mistakenly thinks the sweetness in the drink means calories are entering the body, triggering metabolic processes that can lead to weight gain.These studies don’t necessarily prove drinking diet soda regularly causes health problems, Young cautions, but there’s certainly nothing nutritious about it.The claim: Clear soda is healthier than dark soda.The reality: While the caramel coloring responsible for that dark hue can discolor your teeth, Young said, the big difference between clear and dark sodas is typically caffeine. Think Coca Cola versus Sprite.Since the average can of soda contains less caffeine than a cup of coffee, most soda drinkers probably don’t have to choose Coca Cola over Sprite. But if you are nearing the caffeine tipping point, it might be a rule worth considering.The claim: Carbonated drinks weaken the bones.The reality: Research has zeroed in on the link between soda and bone density. A 2006 study found that women who drank three or more cans of Coca Cola a week had a significantly lower bone density. Researchers believe that the reason is phosphoric acid–found more often in dark sodas–which acidifies the blood, The Daily Beast reported. The body then “leaches some calcium out of your bones to neutralize the acid”, study author Katherine Tucker told the website.Others have suggested that it’s simply the carbonation that hurts bones, but the effect from a single soda is negligible, Popular Science reported.The claim: If you need a caffeine boost, choose an energy drink over coffee.The reality: The truth is that soft drinks marketed for energy, such as Red Bull, contain less caffeine than a cup of coffee, but considerably more sugar.Energy drinks may be easier to drink, but that doesn’t change the fact that brewed coffee contains between 95 and 200 milligrams of caffeine per eight ounces (227 g), while Red Bull has about 80 mg for the same amount, according to US medical research group Mayo Clinic.The claim: A trip to the gym warrants a sports drinkThe reality: You’re apt to think you’ll need a sports drink anytime you break a sweat. But the truth is that your electrolyte and glycogen reserves aren’t depleted until more than an hour of intensive training. So that 45-minute session on the treadmill? It’s probably not going to require much more than some water.
