Simple app says it all in style
An app that does nothing but send a simple notification of “Yo” to recipients is the most popular app right now in the US.The app, named Yo, reached No 1 in the Apple App Store in the US last week, after The Financial Times broke the story on June 18 that the app has received $1 million (6.23 million yuan) in investment funding.Created in just eight hours by Or Arbel, a 32-year-old app developer from Tel Aviv, Israel, Yo claims to be the “simplest and most efficient communication tool in the world”. With a single tap, users can send the word “Yo” to one another in a voice notification — and nothing else.Arbel enthused about his app in an interview with The New Yorker: “It’s a whole new way for communication. A hundred and forty characters is way too much these days… It’s lightweight, easy, you don’t have to open a message — the notification itself is everything you need.”When Yo was launched on April Fools’ Day this year, the Apple App Store at first rejected it on the grounds that it lacked substance. Many people still see the app as a joke. Some technology experts, like Polly Mosendz from The Wire and Judd Legum from Think Progress, point out that the way a simple app like Yo got millions in funding says much about the impending burst of the tech bubble.Simple, but deepArbel calls Yo “context-based communication” and some people are beginning to “get it”. Jordan Crook, from Tech Crunch, explains why the context of a “Yo” says much more than two little letters: “As with anything, a ‘Yo’ can just be a ‘Yo’. But you’ll feel a very real difference between a ‘Yo’ you get in the morning from a friend and a ‘Yo’ you get at 2 am from a friend with benefits. Trust me. And that’s the magic.”But people don’t always want to load their “Yos” with meaning. David Shapiro, from The New Yorker, says now when he thinks about someone, he just “Yos” them instead of spending time starting and carrying on a conversation. He says it’s a great way of saying: “I’m thinking about you but I don’t have anything in particular to say.” Social media constantly demands our time and attention. Not responding to text messages and e-mails can hurt relationships. But, Shapiro says, a “Yo” doesn’t seem to demand a reply. “What a relief,” he says.Andrew Leonard, from The Salon, says “Yo” also signifies something deeper. It “expresses our most essential humanity”. He says that the utterance of the word “Yo” is “a declaration, first, that I exist in this world, and second, that I seek connection and community with something outside myself.” It’s like saying: “Yo… I am here. Is anybody out there?”
