Ready for more action
For most fans of US TV series, it’s been a long summer. As the new TV season gets ready to roll out in the coming weeks, fans and critics are gearing up for the premieres of breakthrough hits, returning favorites, and potential new gems.Here are a few series to look out for with their long-awaited new season debuts.Can a show survive its own backlash?Remember when NBC’s Smash premiered to a standing ovation from critics? It may be hard to recall, considering the lashing the show eventually received from those same reviewers.For its second season, Smash ditched its least popular characters and signed on some new guest stars. The question is whether audiences will return–and whether the show even deserves them back.Meanwhile, HBO’s The Newsroom, long into its first season which critics hated so much, continues to make episodes far more captivating and less patronizing; while Girls returns as an Emmy-nominated hit hoping to win over those who were turned off by its “voice of a generation” hype.Will breakout shows keep up with their popularity?It’s a lot of pressure to follow up on a breakout first season. The challenge is if the show can maintain its quality.Fox’s New Girl initially divided critics with its quirkiness and reliance on Zooey Deschanel, but the show eventually evolved into a solid comedy and became a hit. The test will be whether or not it can keep up the momentum. And 2 Broke Girls on CBS faces the same challenge.On the drama side, newbies Homeland, Revenge, Once Upon a Time, and Scandal are under pressure to keep up their solid ratings. But it’s not just new shows aiming to capitalize on a strong run last season. Raising Hope, The Walking Dead, and Downton Abbey also hope to continue their momentum.Have audiences had enough of sarcastic funny ladies?The talking point of the last TV season was the success of women in sitcoms. There were plenty of fast-talking, sarcastic and interesting female leads to choose from: Jess from New Girl, Max from 2 Broke Girls, Hannah from Girls, and Tessa from Suburgatory.The new season finds Mindy Kaling’s title character from The Mindy Project, Polly from How to Live With Your Parents, and Chloe from Goodwin Games joining the mix.This could either be an embarrassment of riches, or too much for viewers to handle.Is it really the “new normal”?A look at the fall lineup raises the question of whether audiences, over a decade since the premiere of Will and Grace, have accepted gay characters as the new normal.NBC will broadcast a new sitcom The New Normal, which is about a gay couple expecting their first child from a surrogate mother. CBS will premiere Partners, about best friends–one gay, one straight–and their respective significant others.Among the returning hit series, Glee’s tackling of teen homosexuality is well-known, while Modern Family’s Mitch and Cam are among the show’s most beloved characters.
