Bloggers edit their real lives
Whenever you refresh your mini blog, it is quite often you are dazzled by new images of someone posing in a mirror in their newly bought clothes, standing in front of a place of historical interest, or tucking into an array of delicious dishes. It’s easy to accept such colorful life stories if the mini blog belongs to a star. When Barbie Hsu blogged about her sweet, whirlwind engagement, fans said wow, but then calmly accepted the situation.Often, though, the blog in question belongs to the person living in the dorm next to yours.The feelings of disenchantment grow when you read posts on your campus’ BBS or other online communities. Other people’s lives seem so fascinating that you begin to feel your own life is lacking in some way.Zhang Yi, 24, editor of ZTE Corporation’s company magazine, has used her blog to detail her life in the two years following her graduation.“In the beginning I displayed presents from my rich boyfriend, such as luxurious jewelry and clothes,” said Zhang. “But gradually I began to place more emphasis on the prices rather than the presents themselves.”When posting a picture of herself eating ice cream with her boyfriend, Zhang commented: “Can you see the vivid color in the picture? It is from a camera lens worth over 10,000 yuan.”Huang Yimei, one of Zhang’s roommates, has become disillusioned with her own blogging experience. “Everyone is displaying their happiness online; there is nowhere for me to escape to. I can sense that people are showing off. I’ll have to either follow the trend, or get drowned out by it,” said Huang.However, Xu Yan from Beijing Normal University warned that some people might be exaggerating their experiences. Or they only select the bright side of their life. So, don’t rush to label your own life as boring.“Glorifying oneself is a natural human instinct. We exaggerate our happiness or strength when communicating with others,” said Xu, a psychology professor. “We want to look more important, powerful and experienced than we actually are.”The Internet is a place where people can exercise their imagination. Many people edit their real lives and experiences to satisfy their imagination.Lu Yumiao, 19, majoring in law at Sun Yat-sen University, seems extremely busy on his mini blog.“I posted about the lectures and activities I participated in. Then several readers said they admired me for living such a full and colorful campus life, which flattered me,” said Lu.Lu decided to keep living that way. He joined the Student Union and several campus clubs. He became an enthusiastic organizer of campus activities. Like a novelist, he knows that only sensational plots will attract an audience. “Who wants to read a student’s daily routine of classroom, canteen, and dorm?” said Lu. “This era is all about standing out. ” Such an idea encourages people to edit their lives, both in the virtual and real worlds. But Lu admits that his life is far from being as perfect as it appears.“It’s been months and I’m still getting praise from those following my blog. But I find such a life is damaging to my studies,” said Lu. “I feel tired and don’t want to live for others any more.”
