Looking for the next big thing 
WANG Xing finally found a few minutes to sit down at a sandwich shop, after four rounds of scheduling and rescheduling. When asked about the store’s location, he said: "Google it."That’s Wang - rather than giving you a ready answer, he prefers to show you the method.Wang, 31, the founder of six websites including Xiaonei.com, has been a cutting-edge figure in the development of social networking sites (SNS) for seven years.He quit his doctorate program in University of Delaware in the US in 2003 to return to China to start his own career."SNS had been changing the way we spread information," Wang recalls. "It was influencing people’s consumption habits and their way of thinking. I was very excited to join this exciting and meaningful process."Meaningful, exciting and profitable. These are Wang’s criteria when he created Xiaonei and Fanfou.com, a mini blog website.The sites have become popular in China. But many people point out that they appear to be simple copycats of sites created in the West.Xiaonei is called the "Chinese Facebook" and Fanfou is often deemed a "pirated Twitter". Meituan.com, the website Wang started up in March, borrows a lot from Groupon, a US website offering daily deals at low prices through group buying.Wang doesn’t deny taking inspiration from Western sites."It’s not shameful to learn from successful models," Wang says. "Isn’t it good for us to import it and make it suitable for Chinese users?"Ideas are out there and the resources needed to launch new websites are few. After Wang’s success, many similar websites sprang up."I am never afraid of competition," he says. "But the key to winning is always providing better service."Wang works hard to make sure his sites remain relevant and high-quality.His hard work hasn’t always paid off. He sold Xiaonei for a meager $2 million (14 million yuan) to Oak Pacific Interactive in 2006, whose CEO predicted recently that it will have a market capitalization of billions of yuan within three years."We were deep in debt at that time," Wang remembers. "I had no choice."The deal was heartbreaking for Wang."When I saw my staff packing things up on the last day, I was so sad," he says. "The pain was like breaking up with a dear girlfriend."He gathered the courage to launch Fanfou in 2007. That, too, ran into trouble and was closed down last July. Government officials said the company had violated rules. Wang tried to negotiate a solution, but to no avail. He calls it the lowest point in his career.Once again, he would have to start from scratch. He took a half a year off and traveled to Cambodia to contemplate his future. He returned energized, and quickly launched Meituan.This is his sixth venture. Media have been abuzz speculating on his latest creation. Is he nervous?"Just like standing on the free throw line in an important game, if you think about your teammates and the audience, you’ll never make the shot," Wang says. "The only thing you need to focus on is yourself."Wang realizes the market will decide his site’s future."The ratio of failure is very high for young entrepreneurs," he admits. "But you’ll never make it in the future if you never take that first step. The best way to predict the future is by creating it."
