Shop overseas the smart way
Everyone who knows Olivia Griffiths is impressed by her unique sense of style. Whenever she walks into a room, heads turn. Her friends wonder where she buys her scarves made from the finest Chinese silk. Or how she managed to snag the new Mulberry satchel that no one had thought was available in Australia yet.The truth is that Olivia has never left Australia. But with a few clicks of her computer mouse, she can travel to shopping destinations around the world.Online shopping has revolutionized the consumer experience. With the help of an increasing number of online shops overseas, shoppers can now pick up interesting goods made in exotic locations all over the world.The biggest advantage of shopping on foreign websites is the wide range of choices available. For example, Chinese shoppers are often frustrated when Gap products are not available locally. But now it’s possible to order these products straight from the US with a credit card and a small delivery fee.Other benefits of online shopping include competitive prices. When items are bought online from other countries, they’re often tax-free.However, when you buy things from a foreign website, things can get tricky too. So make sure you pay extra attention to protecting your rights.Sometimes it can be difficult to navigate foreign websites because of the unfamiliar language. For example, the term “shipped in 1-5 working days” can be confusing for Chinese shoppers, as it doesn’t clarify whether this is the time in which the product will arrive or the time it takes for it to be processed.The method of shipping can also determine whether you get your product at all. Unless you choose expedited or priority shipping, which only takes a few days to deliver but is more expensive, most standard international shipping doesn’t offer a tracking option ― which means once your products are shipped outside of the country there’s no way of finding out where they are.Since not every overseas online retailer chooses major delivery companies like DHL or FedEx, it’s even possible for your package to get lost.So pay attention to the expected delivery date and keep in touch with the company’s customer service. If your products don’t arrive by the delivery date the company promised, you can request a reshipment or refund.The best consumers are the most savvy ones. If you’re interested in expanding your shopping territory to foreign websites, make sure you do your research beforehand to avoid your money and products being lost on the way.
