Anger over indecent content
China Internet Illegal Information Reporting Centre (CIIRC) has strongly criticized the well-known search engine in response to a large amount of pornographic content on Google China. In addition, relevant authorities have also punished Google China, instructing the search engine to suspend its foreign web search and associative-word search functions and to purge pornographic and vulgar content immediately and thoroughly.Following reports by major media, there was a strong reaction from the public. Many parents and netizens left messages online expressing support for the government."The links on Google’s website lead to a huge amount of pornographic content." As to the truth exposed by the media, many netizens and parents expressed support.Several parents left messages on People’s Daily Online, saying "As parents, we think "Google" is outrageous. How can its associative-word function display pornographic content after a keyword like "son" is typed in?"As to the punishments imposed on Google China, some netizens said, "We lend support to the government’s decision." "Excellent! Firmly crack down on pornographic information and protect young Chinese from being harmed by such content." "Take strong measures against such activity, and no one should be let off." "A more severe punishment should be imposed!"Director of the CIIRC Li Jiaming said that although Google is headquartered in the US, Google China is a business operating on Chinese territory and therefore should be governed by Chinese laws and regulations.A parent expressed his anger as follows: I am very upset. To increase online traffic, some indecent websites resort to every conceivable means. How harmful such things will be on our children! Pornographic content on these websites will greatly affect children’s thinking. If children’s attention is drawn to such disgusting content, how will they be able to grow healthily?After the spread of pornographic content was reported, relevant officers from Google China quickly apologized and stated that the company will rectify the fault in accordance with requirements specified by government law enforcement authorities, conduct a thorough check on all of its Internet search services, make every effort to purge itself of any vulgar content, and report the rectification to relevant authorities in a timely manner. Many parents and netizens reacted by saying that "pornographic websites" have harmed so many people and that they hope Google China can take practical action to correct its mistakes as soon as possible. Some students’ parents and netizens suggested that Google cooperate with relevant authorities in a joint effort to eliminate all domestic pornographic websites in one sweep and effectively shield web surfers from foreign pornographic websites.
