Micro blogger strikes gold
Zhao Cheng is a typical member of the post-90s generation. And, like many of his peers, he spends a lot of time staring at his computer screen, looking for amusing passages to share on his micro blog. He also writes his own amusing comments and observations.It may seem that Zhao, 19, a fresh high school grad, is simply wasting time with his micro blogging *exploits. His parents certainly thought so. And then Zhao amazed them by turning his hobby into a *profitable career.Zhao’s Sina micro blog is called “encyclopedia for embarrassment”, and it has attracted 650,000 followers in only 16 months. Hundreds of advertisers have asked Zhao to forward their ads on his micro blog.However, Zhao has turned down many offers and only forwards two ads per day. Despite this low number, he can still make 20,000 yuan per month forwarding the ads.Advertising gold mineEnterprises, especially those targeting young customers, have realized the value of marketing on micro blogs. Ads, if forwarded by popular bloggers, will enjoy widespread Internet coverage. The information in these ads will also be trusted by other Internet users.Sinomonitor, a Chinese company on market research, did a survey of 4,306 micro blog users in eight cities in China in August, 2010. According to the survey, 61.2 percent of respondents regarded information published by other Internet users as *credible.Therefore, it appears that running a popular micro blog and forwarding several ads per day is a *legitimate, and financially rewarding career choice nowadays. However, in order to be successful, you need to ensure that your micro blog has a large number of followers. Launching a micro blogging *sensation can be tough for *rookies.Strategies for successZhao is a grassroots micro blogger. He worked out his own method to turn his micro blog into an Internet hit.His strategy was to rely first on famous grassroots micro blogs and then the official micro blogs of enterprises to win publicity. To do so, Zhao added “@ [plus] the name of the grassroots blogger or enterprise’s blog” to his amusing micro blog posts. These posts were then *automatically forwarded to existing popular micro blogs or the micro blogs of enterprises.The operators of these popular blogs might then forward Zhao’s micro blog postings to their many followers. Their followers might, in turn, become Zhao’s followers, thereby spreading the word about his amusing micro blog postings.In Zhao’s opinion, it’s not necessary to come up with a totally original micro blog if you want to become an online sensation.“You can publish a popular post you have found in other online communities on your micro blog. But to become a sensation, you have to be the first one to publish the post,” said Zhao.Snagging a sensationTherefore, a micro blogger needs to be aware enough to sense a post’s potential to become an online sensation. He or she also needs to be daring enough to publish *potentially controversial posts or launch activities which could be *risky.On May 4, Zhao launched a game involving 12,600 users on his micro page. The name of the game is “Leave your mobile phone number and see whether someone will say good night to you.”Zhao discovered this risky game on a Baidu post. “It’s risky to let strangers know your mobile phone number,” Zhao admitted. “But young people of the post-80s and post-90s love taking risks. I was confident that this game would become a micro blog sensation.”Because most micro bloggers in China are young, ambitious young micro bloggers have an edge when it comes to producing online sensations. After all, who can better read the minds of young micro bloggers than other young micro bloggers?Rules of the gameIn order to hunt for the most up-to-date, hot topics online, Zhao has to spend almost all of his spare time surfing the Internet. He often stays up late.Running a popular micro blog is an exhausting job, both *physically and *mentally. Publishing ads also requires energy and commitment. Zhao spends a lot of time adding personal *anecdotes and comments to the ads he forwards. He always ensures that his comments are related to the ads’ content. He said: “It’s better not to make hard sales by directly forwarding the client’s ads because followers don’t like it.” He added: “Neither is it wise to publish ads every hour to *maximize your income, or your account will seem like a *spam bot.”
