When rap, physics, and fame collide
Does rap have anything to do with physics? Twenty-three-year-old Kate McAlpine says – or, rather, sings – that it does. In the second half of last year, when LHC was preparing for the crash research, a video attracted netizens from all over the world. In the video, several people wearing LHC union suits dance while singing Rap, explaining LHC in detail.This month, her new song, Rare Isotope, which introduces FRIB (Facility for Rare Isotope Beams), was released on the Web. It sounds like she has another winner.Like other young people, Kate has a houseful of CDs. Because rap’s rhythm makes it easier to remember its lyrics, Kate came up with the idea of teaching physics through music.She graduated from Michigan State University with a dual degree in professional writing and physics. After that, she worked as an intern for the American Physics Society.The dream came true when a staff member had to go on leave. During a lunch one afternoon, she asked, “Who’s available this afternoon? Anyone want to make a rap video down here?” A few did, and the rest is history.She had written the lyrics during her 40-minute bus commute from Geneva out to the lab, so Kate and her brave colleagues went down to the huge magnet to film the video.Later, she added the rap and posted the video on the web. Within the first week, it had 2 million viewers on YouTube. And before long, she was getting letters from around the world. Physics lovers were translating the lyrics into Chinese, Italian and German.Support also came from the LHC itself. “You’ve found the right way,” said James Riordon, media relations head and McAlpine’s former boss at the American Physical Society. “All the LHC scientists here like this video.” Kate was even invited to perform at a LHC evening party.Now, she works for the news agency associated with CERN. She also writes for magazines like New Scientist. On her free time, she watches The Big Bang Theory (CBS 2007), an American comedy about a Blondie and four clever Otakus. “It’s funny that we can easily find one or two people around us [in the office who are] similar to the characters in [the show],” she said, adding that the comedy explains complex scientific theory in a vivid way. But don’t worry: Kate will continue working on her “scientific Rap career”. With the help of her alma mater, she made the new song Rare Isotope. As for whether she’ll publish a disc, she laughs: “I’ve never thought of that before. I just think it’s fun and hope more people can join us, singing scientific rap!”
