Cards that won’t topple
Say hello to House of Cards, the critically acclaimed new US TV drama series that, ironically, isn’t being aired on TV.Since most fans of American TV series in China watch episodes online instead of on their TV sets, it probably doesn’t matter.What is worth mentioning is the format in which the show was launched: the 13 episodes of the first season all aired at once on Netflix (a US company that legally streams videos through the Internet for a monthly fee), causing widespread discussion on “binge-viewing”.In short, it’s like the marathon run of The Legend of Zhenhuan on TV during the Spring Festival holiday. It’s a special treat for devoted fans who don’t want to wait an entire week until they can see the next episode.Now for the show itself. The story is about Frank Underwood (Kevin Spacey), a congressman who has been promised the post of Secretary of State in the newly elected president’s administration. When the president breaks that promise, Underwood embarks on a campaign of revenge.Despite the big names, including director David Fincher (The Social Network) and Oscar-winning Spacey, I wasn’t fully taken in at first.Political drama is a tricky genre. Often it’s obscure and very slow. For those used to watching more exciting series, like Homeland, it can be hard to feel intrigued by, say, an education bill. But the more I watched, the more I liked the series; whether it was the beautifully shot scenes or Spacey’s excellent acting.Underwood’s goal is to quietly destroy the president, without having any blood on his hands. At certain points you wonder: how can he have so much power without anybody being suspicious? It’s a bit like the unstoppable Emily Thorne in ABC’s Revenge. But with Spacey, you somehow believe he could get anyone to do anything.Throughout the series he explains his plans by directly speaking into the camera ― a technique that has been used in many TV series, often to bad effect. But Spacey’s natural and skillful acting makes it work.One of the more common comments about the show is that “it makes TV network executives nervous”. If a TV series that didn’t even air on TV can do that, I can’t think of a reason why you shouldn’t give House of Cards a try.
