Storms in cyberspace
CYBERSPACE enables fast communications, electricity grids, international banking and military might. While we can’t live without the Web, its very openness has made individuals, organizations and even nations targets in this new era of cyber warfare.Last week, the US launched an exercise called Cyber Storm III. It was designed to simulate an all-out cyber attack in order to determine the readiness of US systems and infrastructure.This is the third time that the US has run the biennial Cyber Storm exercise. In total, the exercise involved 13 countries, six US cabinet-level departments and 60 companies. It simulated more than 1,500 types of threat to critical government systems.The signal is clear: the cyber warfare is no science fiction anymore.The concept of cyber warfare first became popular after the cyber attacks on Estonia in 2007 and on Georgia in 2008. Since then, cyber espionage and cyber attacks have become a staple of conflict among nations.China has also been the victim of cyber attacks. Within the first month of its launch in 2009, the Ministry of Defense website was attacked more than 2 million times.If such attacks are a mere annoyance, then the recent computer worm Stuxnet represents the first use of a malicious program as an offensive weapon. It could mark a new and more threatening era for cyberspace.The worm has affected manufacturing and utility companies worldwide. Most of the systems infected are in Iran, and analysts have speculated that the worm was designed to cripple Iran’s Bushehr nuclear facility.Invisible weaponsAccording to James Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, cyber warfare is inevitable.“We are in the same place as we were after the invention of the aeroplane,” he told UK newspaper the Guardian. “It was inevitable someone would work out how to use planes to drop bombs. Militaries will now have a cyber-war capability in their arsenals.”The damage will be difficult to reverse. Sami Saydjari, head of the Cyber Defense Agency, a US-based information security company, told CBS that a country’s sovereignty is at risk in the face of cyber attacks.“Basically, our whole superpower status as the United States depends on computers,” he was quoted as saying. “We lose them, we lose our status as a superpower. We become a Third World country overnight.”UK newspaper The Daily Telegraph gave a more concrete scenario: “for just $50 million and with 600 people working for two years, the US could be ‘paralyzed’ by a cyber attack.” Along with the growth of the threat, a number of political, technological and ethical questions arise. In what sense could a cyber attack be war? Should we look at cyber weapons as those of mass destruction?Before we can answer questions like these, an international agreement is needed to limit cyber attacks. Through a UN working group, countries including the US, China and Russia have taken initial steps to devise some ground rules for cyber crime and cyber warfare. A bigger concern is: when will the currently tightly-controlled cyber weapons fall into the hands of terrorists? 
