Worthy of their attention
In the digital age, getting students into classrooms is an increasingly challenging mission for university teachers, not to mention retaining their attention.“It’s much harder to teach the post-90s generation,” said Chen Jixiu, a math professor at Fudan University. “They use smartphones and tablets to search for information, even during class. They get knowledge from a variety of sources, and consider it trivial to skip classes.”  According to Chen, this phenomenon has forced teachers to adopt “odd tricks” for luring students to class. Here are some weird ideas picked up by 21st Century.Food for thoughtRather than providing only moral encouragement, teachers at Wuhan University of Technology are offering tangible incentives to boost student attendance.Students sitting in the first row of the health psychology course taught by professor Lei Wuming are rewarded with snacks.“I’ve accumulated 7,000 fans on my micro blog, and most of them are my students,” said Lei, director of the university’s Development and Education Psychology Institution. “I wanted to express my thanks to those coming to listen, and to make the class more lively.”Teacher vs phoneIn the broadcasting and hosting course of Hankou University in Hubei, teacher Huang Huiqiong gives students permission to busy themselves with their cell phones during class.They keep their heads down until they hear something interesting. If not, they can sit through the entire class without being disturbed and even give the teacher advice following the class. “A teacher is not the boss and students have the right to make content suggestions,” said Huang.Friendly blogsYou might hesitate to participate in class discussions, but what if you could send a message instead of speaking out loud? In the computer science course at Changsha University of Science & Technology (CUST), students can voice opinions via their cell phone.“I open a micro blog webpage and when students text a message to the account it appears on the screen,” said teacher Huang Qiang.Su Ying, 19, a sophomore at CUST, said: “I feel relaxed as I don’t like standing up and getting everybody’s attention.”At Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, students who arrive at the laboratory early are rewarded with a message of praise on a micro blog named “BUPT CAD center attendance machine”. It might say something like: “Edison invented the first bulb; Bell invented the first telephone; and this morning, Xiao Li printed the first fingerprint.”The machine, which sends a message whenever a student places their finger on it, was invented by Song Meina, a computer professor. “Students wrote the posts themselves. If they come first, they are praised in front of 2,000 fans,” the professor said.Kung fu styleSplitting bricks by hand usually only happens in movies. But in a class at Sichuan University, Wei Yaoyong, dean of the computer science department, did just that. But he didn’t just want to attract attention.“I wanted to tell my students that even when you only know some simple science principles, if you use them right, you can achieve great things,” said Wei. “I want them to know that university is not only about doing research, but also about employing your practical knowledge.”
