A Dinner to remember
If you had a chance to prepare dinner for your mother, would you choose to make it right now or some day in the future?Watch the video Paradise Dinner by Liu Xiaoyu, a junior at Hebei Institute of Communications, and you will find a right answer.Recently, the six-minute film Paradise Dinner won great acclaim on the Internet. It depicts the story of a son who made a big lunch for his mother, but he can only send the dinner to paradise, because his mother has passed away."If you do not show your filial piety to your mother right now, you might never have the opportunity in the future, because your mother is growing older and older by the day – this is the main theme of my film," said the 21-year-old Liu.Creative InspirationLiu conceived the story for Paradise Dinner over his 2010 summer vacation.One day during that holiday, he found his parents were displaying their advanced age more prominently than ever and immediately, he realized that his parents were not young any more. "Seeing my elderly parents through this new perspective, I realized I never showed them enough respect in daily life," Liu said. "So I decided to write a script calling for all people, especially young people, to show more filial piety to their parents."A touching giftLiu started to do preparatory work for the film in October 2010; the hardest part, he said, was finding actors. Luckily enough, one of Liu’s schoolmates who was working in a media company recommended an elderly actress surnamed Zhang to Liu.Liu had a good feeling about Zhang even though she was an amateur actress; in addition, she was quite moved by the story and insisted on taking the part for free.The film also stars a boy who plays the son. Liu’s teachers recommended several male students to him, and Liu finally chose a freshman named Yuan Zhen because of what Liu viewed as his pure-heartedness and easy-going personality。Two months later, Liu and six colleagues started to shoot the film. Although the whole shooting process just took them one-and-a-half days and 200 yuan, they encountered many difficulties."I used my Canon camera to shoot the film, so the effect was a bit amateur; it was also hard for us to record actors’ voices and we had to use a microphone to do late dubbing," Liu said. "But the most difficult part was editing. I needed to be exquisitely patient to get my vision just right."Public appreciationIn fact, Liu was hardly satisfied with Paradise Dinner when he finished it. However, screening the film to his parents, he found them moved to tears by his accomplishment, which later inspired him to post the video on the Internet and enter it in the Beijing University Student Film Festival.Many Web users subsequently said they greatly appreciated the film and most of them said they cried right along with Liu’s parents.Liu’s effort was also admired by his teachers and peers. Hu Wei, Liu’s classmate, said that Liu’s teacher praised him as a hardworking and independent student."Liu is a stubborn person who always pursues perfection, which inevitably gives rise to disputes with others during the shooting process," said Hu. "But I think the film is successful because of, not in spite of, Liu’s stubbornness."
