Go small or go home at 2016 Nobel Prizes
Bigger isn’t always better. People who are skeptical about this argument just need look at smartphones and personal computers, which have served as the technological driving force of the past century. It is the continual shrinkage of components that have unleashed the explosion of computing power and enabled these gadgets to be accessible to people across the world.Inspired by this, researchers and scientists have been working on areas where making things small may mean big results. And this year, the Nobel Prize has defied the convention of celebrating big by presenting the biggest prizes to discoveries on the smallest scales.The Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine was awarded to a cellular-level experiment. The committee *bestowed the award upon Yoshinori Ohsumi of the Tokyo Institute of Technology, for his research on “*autophagy”, which is a “self-eating” process seen in cells.What’s more, in recognition of their working on the bizarre properties of matter in extreme states and taking their research all the way down to an atomic scale, the Nobel Prize for physics was awarded to three British-born scientists who currently work in the US.Another exceptional new field is that of nanotechnology. The Nobel Prize in chemistry was awarded to a scientist who managed to build the world’s tiniest machines out of molecules. These contraptions, including a nano-sized car, are so small that they’re invisible to the human eye.Microscopic as the subjects are, the benefits of the scientists’ research are set to be huge. More importantly, their inventions may even eventually be turned into products that benefit mankind.Ohsumi’s research on “autophagy” shines a light on ubiquitous diseases such as Parkinson’s and diabetes.As for the molecular motors, they’re geared up to bring huge potential to the fields of medicine and energy. The ground-breaking discoveries in physics, “have ignited a firestorm of research, and it’s only a matter of time before their research leads to advances as unimaginable to us now as lasers and computer chips were a hundred years ago,” Laura H. Greene, president-elect of the American Physical Society told The New York Times.
