When black holes collide
About 1.3 billion years ago, in a galaxy far, far away, two massive black holes smashed into each other and merged into one. The energy released by the collision created a ripple in the fabric of space-time and propagated outward in gravitational waves.Then, on Sept 14, 2015, a group of scientists detected the waves. On Feb 11, an announcement came from the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) in the US that, for the very first time, a gravitational wave was directly observed and recorded.“We have detected gravitational waves. We did it,” David Reitze, the executive director of LIGO, said in a press conference on Feb 11. “It’s exactly what Einstein’s theory of general relativity predicted.”Einstein’s 1915 theory of general relativity re-imagined the framework for the universe. According to Einstein, the framework for the universe – or the space-time fabric – is not static and fixed, but distorted by matter and energy “in a way a heavy sleeper causes a mattress to sag, producing the effect we call gravity”, explains a New York Times article.“A disturbance in the cosmos could cause space-time to stretch, collapse and even jiggle, like a mattress shaking when that sleeper rolls over, producing ripples of gravity: gravitational waves,” explains the article.Compared with the other three forces in the universe (electromagnetism, the weak nuclear force and the strong nuclear force), gravity is relatively feeble, making gravitational waves hard to detect.These waves cause tiny changes in the dimensions of whatever they pass through, explains a Cosmos Magazine article. “Everything on Earth, including your own body, expands and contracts in concert with the waves. These expansions and contractions are unbelievably tiny, far smaller than a single atom,” says the article.The LIGO detector is able to detect shifts of less than 1/10,000th the width of an atom, according to Vox.com. It can capture gravitational waves up to 225 millions light-years away.The discovery by LIGO would open a new chapter in astronomy. “Everything else in astronomy is like the eye,” Szabolcs Marka, a Columbia University professor who is one of the LIGO scientists, told The New York Times. “Finally, astronomy grew ears. We never had ears before.”
