Get fueledfor the future
Perhaps you’ve heard this already: In 1979, researchers surveyed new graduates from Harvard University’s MBA program and found that 84 percent of them had no specific goals. Only 3 percent had set long-term targets and made plans how to achieve them. It turned out 10 years later that the 3 percent were earning, on average, 10 times more than the other 97 percent put together.College is the time when you’re expected to commit to your path in life. But it’s also the time when you’re the least equipped to have any long-term perspective. Brian Fetherstonhaugh, CEO of the US-based digital marketing company Ogilvy-One Worldwide,offers some tips on how to aim your sights into the future.The whole process can be divided into three stages. The first is “gathering fuel”.This means building up your skills, learning from different experiences and developing a network of people who you trust and who trust you. You want to work hard, always, but you shouldn’t hope to reach your peak straight away. This is a *phase in life that requires patience and a willingness to identify your own weaknesses and work on them.If you complete this stage with a growing sense of what you love to do and what you’re good at and what the world appreciates – you’re winning.The second stage is when you start burning that fuel.This is the time to identify, feed, and bet on your strengths. You improve the skills you’ve obtained through experiences, the people you’ve met along the way and the recognition of what you should do.It seems that most of us try to jump straight to the second stage. We want to launch fast and get where we’re going in a hurry, but that rarely works. “*Chill out a bit, take this long view,” Fetherstonhaugh says. “You should make smaller daily, monthly, yearly moves and choices that position you for the really big stuff, which is longer-term success.”The final part is about staying current and maintaining your skills. In a nutshell, it’s about staying strong and relevant, while turning an eye toward what lies ahead.The *crux of this stage: “It’s a surprisingly long journey and most people vastly *underestimate it.” You can’t expect an ideal life to happen by itself or through *sheer force of will. You must recognize – regardless of where you are on the path – that each step is there to teach you something, feeding you that fuel.If you’re not doing what you want, you need more fuel – so go out and get it. And if you are doing what you want, don’t just coast. Keep moving, and don’t settle.
