New approach to job hunting
How do you secure a job in a competitive market? Some students are no longer satisfied with sending out their resumes online and waiting for a response. They’re so fed up of looking for a job that they visit HRs in their office, even if their application has already been turned down.“Applicants are willing to try new things that might be against the rules but could improve their chances,” said Wang Qiuqiu, 22, a senior majoring in advertisement at Zhejiang University.After Wang saw an interesting job online, she applied, confident that she had the right experience and would be a perfect fit. But when she didn’t receive a reply, she decided to try something else.“I will go to the company with my resume and talk to the HR manager directly,” she said.But Wang is not the only graduate who has dared to just “drop in”.According to a recent report by Renren.com, a social media website, more than 21 percent of graduates have tried to attend written tests without an invitation, 15.6 percent of them succeeded.Another 20 percent tried to show up at interviews unannounced, 14 percent of them managed to persuade HRs to let them join.“It demonstrates the courage and creativity of the post-1990 generation,” said He Mang, deputy professor at the Human Resource Development Institute of Chongqing University.“But in the job market only a few manage to find a job in unexpected ways or by accident. So it won’t suit everybody.”Some bold graduates believe they have nothing to lose and everything to gain. But Wang Xicheng, HR director at Ernst & Young, an accounting firm, thinks otherwise.“This method can backfire. If candidates show up with no appointment, it could ruin their chances,” She said.For HR managers, such visits draw attention to applicants in the wrong way.Zhou Xiaorong, HR manager at Mindray Medical International Ltd in Shenzhen, believes graduates are getting more and more aggressive.For her, simply visiting to drop off a resume in a polite way is fine. But it’s unacceptable for candidates to ask for an interview or an office tour.“Showing up with no appointment is impolite, weird, and often a deal-breaker. You need to be patient,” said Zhou.“It’s the employers who decide whether they want to see a candidate. It annoys me when people try to circumvent that process.”
