The most dangerous jobs in Australia
For most of us, a dangerous day on the job might involve a steam burn from the office kettle. But for others, work is a daily force to do battle with, filled with hazards that could maim or kill you at every turn.There were 212 people killed at work last year, according to figures compiled by Safe Work Australia, with 112 people killed on the job this year so far.Being a soldier ranks as one of the most dangerous jobs in the country.Here are some of the jobs you may want to think twice about before heading to an interview.Commercial fishermanIf Deadliest Catch, is any indication, this job is certainly one of the toughest. Workers are miles offshore for weeks at a time, enduring tough physical working conditions and plenty of wild weather. Safe Work Australia reports agriculture, fishing and forestry is a supremely dangerous industry, with 50 people killed on the job last year and 27 losing their life this year so far.MiningIn this dangerous job，workers are put in long hours surrounded by heavy machinery and toxic chemicals. Five people lost their lives in mining jobs in 2012, a figure already matched in this years results, according to Safe Work Australia.Road train driversTransport is a notoriously dangerous industry with 74 deaths in the last 12 months. Road train drivers accounted for 15% of all road fatalities in 2011 with a total of 200 fatal crashes.Construction workersAlthough it’s relatively common, working in construction can be dangerous business. Safe work Australia reports 23 workers died on Australian construction sites last year, with 15 fatalities in 2013 so far. It’s also one of the most heavily represented industries when it comes to work compensation claims.Tree loppersThe combination of unsteady branches, overhead wires and high winds that tree loppers have to deal with make it a particularly tricky job. It’s part of the agricultural, forestry and fishing industry in which 50 people died in 2012 with more than 27 killed so far this year.FarmersA life on the land might seem idyllic but any farmer will tell you it’s tough and dangerous work. Being a farmer or rancher can land you among the top three dangerous jobs in the world,.Defence forcesPolice officers and soldiers face the risk of death, assault, injury and abuse on a daily basis. Every year, approximately one police officer is murdered in Australia. There have also been 40 deaths in Afghanistan since 2002.FirefightersFirefighters are often exposed to risky situations when fighting the bushfires that flare up each year. The leading cause of death for firefighters often caused by asphyxiation and burns (20%), motor vehicle collisions (20-25%), trauma (27%) and heart attack (44%).PilotsNo matter how experienced, pilots still face the risk of fatality of things go wrong in the air. The Aviation Safety Transport Bureau reports there were 130 accidents, 121 serious incidents and 6,823 minor incidents in 2011 involving aircraft.Rubbish collectorYou see them once a week out the front of your house but rubbish collectors are doing a tough job that exposes them to heavy machinery, harsh chemicals and a high-risk of traffic accidents.
