Ticket to a new life
Liu Encheng’s experience of traveling to New Zealand on a working holiday visa was a life changer: “It’s about having a chance to understand yourself better, to find out what you really want.”As soon as New Zealand’s government announced its plan to offer 1,000 working holiday visas to Chinese residents a year in 2010, Liu, then 27, applied.Back then, Liu had worked as a reporter for the Kunming Daily for five years, after graduating from a tourism management major at Central South University of Forestry and Technology.Rural tasteLiu arrived in New Zealand in December and was impressed by the summer Christmas.“Many fruits are ready to harvest, so it’s easy to find a job in the orchards before getting there. Since New Zealand is an agricultural country, working in rural areas helps you understand the country better,” says Liu.The most important thing, according to Liu, is to live independently. He needed to balance work and travel, because on a working holiday visa you’re only allowed to stay in a job for a maximum of three months. So when Liu had nearly finished a job, it was time to think about what to do next.Variety of experienceDifferent to Liu’s experience, Wu Fei tried many different jobs.Wu was one of the first people to get a working holiday visa in 2010. After graduating from a physics major at Fudan University, he traveled to New Zealand in May. He worked as an assistant for a hunter, a chef in a restaurant, a cleaner in a university, even as an actor in a prison.“There’s a haunted house performance in a disused prison in Napier every week. My job was to wear white clothes and scare people in a prison cell. I hid under a bed and came out just when tourists turned to leave and patted the last person on the shoulder,” says Wu.What impressed him most was the lifestyle of the local people. “They don’t pursue happiness by shopping or going to parties. Instead, they like going outdoors with their families. This simple happiness helps them find inner peace, but it’s hard to do that in a metropolis in China,” says Wu.Embrace local cultureBut it was hard for Liu to communicate with the locals at the beginning, as they spoke with strong accents and there were big cultural differences.“I tried my best to overcome these problems. When you decide to go abroad, you must immerse yourself in an unfamiliar environment and solve problems on your own. I think that’s what makes such a trip special,” says Liu.
