Writing a cover letter to impress
If you apply for a job position with a foreign company, chances are you will be asked to provide an English cover letter along with your resume.But what exactly is a cover letter? How long should it be? And most importantly, what should you write about?A cover letter, or motivation letter, is almost a standard requirement when applying for international jobs. In brief, it is a letter introducing yourself as a person and explaining why you are applying for the position. But there is more to writing a good cover letter.Usually a cover letter should be one page in length, including the sender’s and the recipient’s address, which should be placed at the top of the page. Under this, write a short header in bold print to inform the reader what the letter is about. For example, “Internship opportunity at Haier Group”. If you are sending an e-mail, put this information in the subject box.Next, address the employer by name if you know the contact person. Otherwise it is acceptable to use “Dear Hiring Manager”. In the first paragraph you should then say what position you are applying for and how you found out about it.In the next few paragraphs explain in detail why you believe yourself to be a suitable candidate for the position. The aim of the cover letter is to encourage the reader to look at your resume, so be confident but try to avoid repeating the same information that is already in your resume.It is very important to tailor your cover letter to the position you are applying for. Read through the job description carefully and explain why you meet its requirements.It is best to provide concrete examples of where you learnt the skills necessary for the job, so include some information from your work experience and studies.Don’t lie, as HR managers can easily assess whether you are saying the truth or not. Also, remember that if you are invited for an interview, you will most likely be asked questions about your previous experience, so think of good examples that demonstrate your skills, such as teamwork or problem solving. This is where you can really stand out from other applicants.Writing a convincing cover letter takes a lot of time and effort, but don’t think you can cut corners by writing just one letter and sending it to different employers. The first thing HR managers will pay attention to is whether you have thoroughly researched the company. If they receive a generic letter it will probably end up in the bin.Ask your parents, friends or your university’s career center to read through your cover letter, and make sure there are no spelling mistakes. You can look at samples of cover letters on the Internet for reference, but do not copy them.In the final paragraph, express your enthusiasm for the position and say that you look forward to a response. Also offer to provide further information on request.
