Money making schemes
The move-in day is a good time to sell many products to college freshmen, from daily necessities to yearlong passes for tourist spots. The sales people are students from higher grades. They are allowed to enter dorm buildings and know how to pal up with their peers quickly. Many upperclassmen grab this time to make a fast buck, and more importantly, to acquire early experience in business. 21st Century reporter Xu Jingxi and campus correspondent Li Qiang interviewed these sales people on campus to see what career lessons they had learned. Correspondent Liu Xidan shares her personal experience too.Zeng Renhui, 19Chinese literature, Hunan University of Science and TechnologyThe smart salesperson put herself in the freshman’s shoes and figured out a new way to sell the SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) cards.“When I was a freshman, I felt awkward when an upperclassman walked into my dorm and sold things to me,” Zeng recalled. “It was impossible for me to build trust with the student in such a short time.”Zeng is the administrator of one of the QQ groups of the freshmen in her university. She had been communicating with the freshmen for the whole summer vacation and thus had won their trust.She made full use of the social network she built online and promoted her SIM card business in the QQ group. Zeng has of course created a roaring trade.Liuxidan, 19Business administration, Northeast Normal UniversityThe fan of 21st Century applied to be a campus sales agent for the weekly and was employed as the team leader. Liu was freed from door-to-door sales, but she still had to deal with challenging situations.Freshmen constantly changed their minds. Frequently they asked for a refund, because of untrustworthy hearsay that people who sold newspapers were all thieves, or another lame excuse.Liu wasn’t able to cancel the subscription after issuing the invoice. She was stressed. “You need to be calm, patient and resourceful,” said Liu.She kept smiling when facing unfriendly freshmen and patiently shared her personal experiences of reading the weekly.Liu also sent free sample papers to teachers, who could serve as a credible reference.Xu Bingchuan, 20International economy and trade, Shaanxi University of Science and TechnologyThe sophomore had an eye for items that would sell well. He chose to sell locks instead of phone cards and newspapers, because it was more difficult to persuade freshmen to pay a hundred to subscribe to a paper for a year, than to spend only several bucks on useful locks.At first, Xu patiently found topics to engage the freshmen in chitchats, having looked at tips online about getting close to the customers.But it didn’t work well. He met with cold shoulders most of the time.Luckily, Xu had been prepared for the challenge. “My intention was to see how difficult it could be to set up a business,” said Xu, who would like a job in marketing or sales after graduation.Being thick-skinned is necessary for a successful salesperson. Xu held on and adjusted his strategies. He gradually discovered that it’s better to cut loose and promote goods from the very beginning.“Freshmen nowadays are smart. They know your intention and hate hearing you beating about the bush,” said Xu.“Being an armchair strategist doesn’t work. This is a useful lesson.”
