Race for housing is on
Who knew a place to sleep would be so expensive this season? It’s true — where you lay your head at night is likely to be the single biggest item in your budget. It’s worth taking a long, hard look at whether you’re spending your rent wisely.You need to save money, lots of it, so think strategically. “It’s best to rent a flat in the off-season, like at the end of the year. It’s the cheapest period for rentals as many people leave big cities to go home,” says Liu Ke, a marketing director at Midland Realty, a real estate agency in Shenzhen. “During graduation season, you should begin flat hunting early so that you don’t compete with thousands of graduates,” says Liu. Here is some advice for flat hunting in China’s metropolises.BeijingFlats near the end of a subway line should be the first choice. During rush hour, it’s hard to squeeze on a subway in the middle section of a line, but it’s easy to get on near the terminus and sometimes you can even get a seat.Most people like to live in East Beijing, such as in the Tongzhou and Sihui areas, as they think it’s near the Central Business District. But in the west, you can find two-bedroom flats for about 4,000 yuan a month and it only takes 40 to 50 minutes to reach the CBD area by subway without changing lines. To find a suitable neighborhood, you can either look for residential areas with many seniors, as they usually live in comfortable and convenient blocks, or if you want to share an apartment with younger people, check for classified adverts on Douban.com.ShenzhenSome popular areas in the city have become overcrowded, pushing up rents, but districts far away from the city center offer affordable alternatives. For instance, a two-bedroom flat in Baishizhou costs 3,000 yuan a month, but a similar sized one in Henggang only costs 600 yuan.From Henggang it takes only 20 minutes to get to Luohu by subway, or 40 minutes to the business district. Living costs are also cheaper than downtown and you can get meals for 8 to 12 yuan.To find a flat in the suburbs you need to go there yourself and find a landlord with flats for rent.Try to negotiate the rent, especially if it’s an unfurnished flat. There are usually second-hand furniture shops nearby where you can get everything you need.WuhanUniversity areas are popular places for graduates as most of them like to live near a campus. In the area around Wuhan University, Central China Normal University and Wuhan University of Technology, life is convenient and there are restaurants, cinemas and shopping malls nearby.In this area you can rent a shared flat with two bedrooms for 1,500 yuan. There are many bus routes here and most of the tenants are students, so you can go back to enjoying campus life.The most useful information always appears on advertising boards in local stores and universities. Landlords with the most affordable housing often target college students and graduates, so check online BBS for information.
