Grads find rural opportunities
Wearing glasses and a T-shirt, one can hardly relate Chai Huilong to his job – a chive farmer.Two years ago, Chai graduated from Tianjin College of University of Science and Technology Beijing. He took over his parents’ 20,000-square-meter plot of land and set up a business: growing Chinese chives.But instead of growing chives in the traditional way, Chai plants them in garden pots and sells them directly to customers through an online store. Now his family earns 10 million yuan a year.Chai is one of many young people who have found great career opportunities in rural areas. They make good use of their agricultural knowledge and new technologies, and benefit from supportive policies.When Chai came up with the idea of growing chives in pots, he was not sure about running his own business. But Youth Business China, a non-profit program backed by the government, gave him “courage and strength”, he said.Confidence boostThe program helps promote youth entrepreneurship. It offers 30,000 to 50,000 yuan in start-up funding to young people who have promising ideas. It also assigns each of them a tutor who provides guidance on spending fund money and operating the company.“My tutor makes sure I’m on the right track,” said Chai.Local governments also encourage young graduates to pursue a career in rural areas. They often provide special subsidies to those who run agriculture-related businesses.For example, Chai was able to buy agricultural machinery and tools at a discount.Running a business is a dream for many young graduates. Two percent of Chinese graduates in 2012 started up a business, according to data released by MyCOS, an educational data consultancy. For start-up businesses, experts recommend rural areas as a good platform.“Compared with big cities, there are more opportunities in small cities and rural areas,” said Qi Xiaoming, chief inspector of Practice Enterprises Network China International Links.But experts also warn that graduates need to be cautious about starting up projects.Not risk-free“It’s necessary to find the right project that fits the local conditions. It only leads to failure if one simply copies another person’s idea,” said Fang Zhongqiu, deputy head of a local Party committee’s organizational department in Lianyungang city, Jiangsu province.Besides, be prepared for a lot of mental pressure if you plan to be a modern farmer, said Chai.His mother cried for days after learning that Chai would not stay in Tianjin after his graduation.“My relatives and friends regard farming as a less respectable job. But being a farmer is just my job, not my identity,” said Chai.So far, his products have been shipped to places as far away as Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. Chai is optimistic that he can further broaden the definition of farming in the future.
