Would you work for zero salary?
IF a company asked you to work for half a year without pay, would you accept the job?No? Well, quite a few of your peers are saying, "Yes."According to a recent report by the Communist Youth League Beijing Committee and the Beijing Youth Stress Management Service Center, almost one out of five responding college graduates said they would accept zero-salary jobs for up to six months.Yao Lanjie, a college graduate who majored in psychology at a key university in Hubei, told interviewers from the recruitment website 333job.com that she would be fine if she wasn’t paid during her first three months on the job.Graduates like Yao hope to show their employers that they are eager learners, and that they value the job more than the salary. But can taking a "zero-salary" job really give job-seekers an edge in the fiercely competitive job market? The answer from HR experts is: No."To be honest, I will doubt a job seeker’s ability if he or she requires a very small salary during the job interview," said Chen Yao, marketing director at 333job.com and one of Yao’s interviewers. "Is the job seeker so incapable that he or she has to lower the salary requirement to find a job? This is my worry."Chen said Yao actually didn’t need to sacrifice her salary in order to get a job. Chen was quite impressed by both her clear career planning and her excellent internship performance with the company. So he decided to take Yao in and pay her a probationary salary, even though she didn’t ask for anything.Do some researchFeng Lijuan, chief HR expert at 51job.com, agreed with Chen. She advised college graduates not to say things like, "I don’t mind whether the salary is big or small; I just care whether I can learn things in the company.""The companies employ you because you meet their needs and you can make contributions - not because they can help you improve yourself," said Feng.She suggested that college graduates do some research on the salaries of people in their industry. They can do this either by browsing the Web or by talking with alumni who are working in their field. This will enable college graduates to suggest an appropriate salary requirement in the job interview.It’s against the lawHere’s another reason to reject a zero-salary job offer: Working for no pay is against the law.According to Liu Haobin, director of Beijing Uniontop Law Firm, companies can hire college interns for free before their graduation, but employers are forbidden to do so after students graduate.During their probationary working period, "employers must pay their employees no less than 80 percent of the monthly salary stated in the job contract, and no less than the local minimum salary standard," said Liu.This hasn’t stopped some graduates from working for free, but most who have regret doing so. Zhang Min (pseudonym, as she asked to remain anonymous), a 25-year-old human resources major from a university in Chengdu, planned to accept no pay for some time before she started working for a Xinjiang-based news outlet.But when she witnessed the stressful workloads after coming on board, she quickly changed her mind. She found out that some of her colleagues were only paid according to how much news they wrote. They were given no base salary, said Zhang."It’s true that I have learned a lot from the challenging job, but now I think that if I cannot be guaranteed a stable salary, I will quit the job."
