Plan ahead to avoid frustration
Despite her parents’ objection, Huang Tianming quit her job at a Beijing-based exhibition company. The 23-year-old didn’t even say goodbye to her colleagues because she was there for less than two weeks. After a difficult time job-hunting, quitting a job seemed a lot easier.There are many graduates just like Huang who struggle to find a job, yet quit soon after starting one. They may have their reasons, but professionals advise them to think more carefully about their career.‘No’ to computersHaving graduated from an overseas university, Huang entered the job market feeling confident. “I have a master’s degree in communication studies, so I thought I could get a decent job at any media company,” she says. But the reality was harsh. After two months of job-hunting, a private exhibition company offered her a job. With no other options, she accepted.Contrary to Huang’s expectations, her job was neither related to exhibitions nor communication. Instead, she sat in front of a computer all day long, checking and managing files.“After my first day at work, my eyesight was blurry,” she says. On the following days, she was assigned to do more paperwork, which was boring and tiring for Huang.“I quit this job soon because the paperwork and computer were driving me crazy. I don’t know what I want to do, but I hope next time I can find a job that doesn’t involve computers,” Huang says.Jumping from one job to the nextCompared with Huang, who has no idea what to do with her career, Zhang Xiaowan is a more determined graduate. The 24-year-old graduate from Beijing Institute of Graphic Communication decided to do design work from the very beginning. But her career path wasn’t smooth either – she changed jobs four times in one year.Her first job was as a page designer at a fashion magazine. The work demanded a lot of professional techniques and as Zhang was a rookie, she couldn’t handle the stress. Two months later, she quit. Her second job was with a health magazine. She left after three months as she felt like no one would read the magazine. It was a frustrating feeling.Zhang got her third job at an instrument shop. At first, she thought the position was perfect for her. But when the company assigned a new boss to her, she decided to quit. “My new boss made things difficult for me. He gave me work that I could never finish,” she says.Now, Zhang works as a page designer at an educational newspaper. She’s not sure how long this job will last.Plan your career, but adapt to any requirements on the way.Huang and Zhang’s experiences aren’t unusual. According to data released by education consulting firm MyCOS, 33 percent of graduates in 2012 quit their job in the first half-year.Their reasons vary, but Jia Dongmei, HR supervisor at BTG Hotels Group believes that the main reason for quitting jobs early is a lack of career planning.“Most students have the idea of finding a decent and promising job. They expect to become a white collar,” says Jia. “But being a white collar isn’t a job. They need to have a clear idea of what job they want to do and in which industry.”Li Ling, a senior consultant at the China International Talent Development Center, holds the same view.She believes that apart from making career plans, graduates should be professional. “Doing a job is like playing a role. Graduates must fit their role – adapt themselves to the requirements of the job - before they are valuable to the company,” she says.
