How to deal with a bad boss
Mark Sebba is “the man”, according to thousands of employees of the online luxury retailer Net-a-Porter.When Sebba, CEO of the online retailer, decided to step down from the company after 11 years of service, his staff threw him a surprise retirement party.A video uploaded to YouTube shows Sebba walking into Net-a-Porter’s London office on July 11 to be greeted by crowds of adoring employees, singing and dancing to the hit single The Man.It wasn’t only London staff getting in the party mood. There are video shots of Net-A-Porter’s team in Manhattan showing Sebba their love and appreciation and teams in New Jersey, Shanghai and Hong Kong also getting in on the act, reported The Huffington Post.Sebba may be the most beloved boss on the planet — not only has he overseen rapid growth in the company since 2003, but also because of his charming personality. To the rest of us, however, having a truly great boss is an exception rather than the norm. That’s because being a good boss takes a lot of learning and great effort. A good boss is humble and inspires people to succeed. However, bombastic and self-confident people are traditionally thought to be the best leaders and there are plenty of those in our work lives.Management strategiesAccording to a recent Gallup poll, the top reason people quit their job is a bad supervisor. But if you really like the job or need it as a steppingstone in your career, you will have to learn to deal with your subpar superior. Daniel Bortz, who writes Time magazine’s career column, has some advice to cope with the following types of bosses.The micromanager: Checking your work progress all the time.How to cope: Try to build trust by always making sure your work is outstanding. Put your boss on a schedule for when they can expect status reports. Start with daily updates, then ask for permission to shift to weekly.The passive-aggressive: Praising you in private, then criticizing your ideas in public.How to cope: Try to get honest feedback from your boss. You can say: “I got the sense you didn’t like my idea. Would you mind next time sharing your constructive criticism in advance? It would really help me improve.”The praise thief: Stealing credit for your work and ideas.How to cope: Take ownership by saying, “I noticed that the project I developed has taken off with the big bosses. I’d love to be included in those conversations.” If this doesn’t work, start sending big-idea e-mails to your boss and your boss’s boss, saying that you want to get input from both of them.The hands-off boss: Giving so much freedom to staff that they may be working on the wrong tasks.How to cope: When starting a project, ask your supervisor for specifics on what he or she is looking for, then send an e-mail recapping the conversation. You’ll be on the same page and have it on record.The self-centered: Making you work late, calling you on vacation, and generally stealing your personal life.How to cope: People with a big ego think they’re perfect and hate criticism. So cushion the request to reclaim your life with a compliment. Say: “I admire your commitment to excellence and want to do the best job possible, but my work suffers when I’m exhausted. I need my weekends to recover.”
