How to help reduce stress at work
Work can be a stressful place, wherever you earn your living, whether in an office, a factory, or a school. Some stress is good. It motivates us and makes us stronger. Too much stress is bad. It makes us irrational and it can, quite literally, kill us. Fortunately, there are specific things you can do that will help you reduce your stress at work and better cope with it.1.Improve your time management and organization skillsOf the many things you can do in this area the best ones include getting a to do list that works, learning to say "no", asking for help when you need it, and stop setting unrealistic goals for yourself. 2.Relax and breathe deeplyWhether you are feeling overwhelmed by the amount of work you have to do or if someone is "in your face", a good thing to do is to "breathe through your nose". You can’t get as worked up if you force yourself to breathe through your nose. Your body simply can’t maintain the same level of energy without that extra oxygen you get when breathing through your mouth. 3. Take more breaks from your workEven a five-minute break will help. Get away from your desk. Go for a walk - outside is better, but up two flights of stairs and back down is good too. Getting more exercise in general will help you reduce your overall stress levels and that will make it easier to reduce your stress level at work.4.Lighten upSmile more. We all know laughter reduces stress. You will be amazed at how much more pleasant the people around you are when you make an effort to be pleasant yourself. 5.Learn to listen betterRather than getting upset when others disagree with you, listen actively and find the areas of agreement. Be assertive and stand up for yourself, but don’t be rigid. 6.Fix your environmentMake whatever adjustments you need to the lighting, temperature, noise level, and other controllable factors in your office. 7.Don’t sweat the small stuffRealize that there are some things that just aren’t worth worrying about and there are some things you just can’t change. Don’t waste time stressing over the things in either category. 8.Get more sleepThis is another of the things you can do to reduce your overall stress that will have benefits at the office as well. In addition to reducing your stress, it will increase your energy level and your ability to concentrate.9.Find a mentorIf not a mentor, a friend will do. Having someone to talk to can take a lot of stress off you.10.Spend more time with optimistic peopleNegative people will pull you down to their level. Choose to work with people who have a positive attitude instead.
