Zhang tops Hurun list of richest women
Hurun list of the richest women in the Chinese mainland was released on October 15. Zhang Yin tops the list with personal wealth of 33 billion yuan. As the founder and director of the family company Nine Dragons Paper Holdings, which recycles paper into cardboard boxes, Zhang Yin also ranks second on this year’s Hurun Rich List of Chinese mainland’s top 1,000 entrepreneurs. She was the first woman to top the list of richest people in China published by Hurun Report in 2006.According to the list this year, Zhang is followed by Yang Huiyan of property developer Country Garden Holdings with 31 billion yuan, and Chen Lihua of the conglomerate Fu Wah International Group with 23 billion yuan. Last year, Yang took the top spot followed by Zhang and Chen."Chinese women now lead the world’s richest self-made women," said Rupert Hoogewerf, who compiles the annual list.The average wealth on the list of 51 members was estimated at 6.6 billion yuan, up 1.5 billion yuan from last year, and the average age was 46. Zhang is believed to be the wealthiest self-made woman in the world. However, her low profile has helped her remain largely unknown over the past years. Born in a soldier’s family in northeast China’s Heilongjiang Province, Zhang was the eldest sister to seven children. She went to Hong Kong in 1985 and started her career in waste paper trading with 30,000 yuan. Zhang defied financial hardships, cheating business partners and intimidation from local mafia to build up her wealth in the subsequent five years before moving to the United States with her husband in February 1990 to pursue her dream of becoming the "empress of waste paper". In 1996, she set up the Nine Dragons Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in Dongguan of Guangdong Province. Her company works for multinational companies, such as Coca Cola, Nike, Sony, Haier and TCL. Explaining her success, Zhang said it had a lot to do with luck. She said she started her career at a "golden period" in the early 1980s, when China began its reform and opening up drive. And after moving to the United States in 1990, the U.S. economy also began to recover. "Good timing, geographical convenience and harmonious human relations (contributed to my success)," Zhang was quoted as saying.
