Why job hunting is like dating
A young person stands in front of 18 people and takes their questions. The lights go out if the person fails to meet their expectations. What TV program is this?If you answered “a dating program”, think again. We are actually talking about job-hunting reality TV shows. Job-hunting is a challenging task. You’ll find similar types of characteristics among both groups of seekers.HRs and career experts analyze the strength and weakness of each type and to offer corresponding tips.Big-headed perfectionistsIn relationships, these people fix their sights on their “dream” dates. In job-hunting, these people believe they are born to do a particular job.However, if you come across as one-track minded, HRs might have doubts about your flexibility, said Wang Xijin from the 2010 Class of Beijing International MBA (BiMBA) at Peking University. Wang is also the HR/recruitment and training manager at Diebold China.“An employee is very likely to undergo job rotation. It’s risky to hire a person if he is unwilling to accept any other post,” said Wang.“Moreover, having been misled by their subjective evaluations of themselves, these people may set goals out of their reach, yet refuse to accept the fact,” said Bai Jingxiang, a consultant in relationships and career planning at China Women’s University.As an example, Zhang Yiyuan, a participant in the job-hunting reality show Jobs Come Jobs Go, wanted to be a stylist. Instead of taking advice, he blamed interviewers for “being unable to understand his unique style”, though all 18 interviewers agreed that his clothes looked like a “fashion disaster”.To solve the problem, Bai suggested that big-headed job seekers should be more open to other opinions. For instance, they can ask for the HR’s feedback after a job interview, and adjust their career goals accordingly.“They will find neither a partner nor a job if they don’t lower their expectations when necessary,” Bai warned. Commitment-shy butterfliesWe have seen candidates, in both job-hunting and dating programs, who use the shows as a showcase for their talents, or a stage in which they can prove their worth.In job-hunting shows, these people may have obtained one or more offers before appearing on the show. Then, when their performance attracts the attention of the interviewers, they turn down any offers which come their way.Instead of calling these people “insincere”, Bai described them as “lost” in their career direction.While it’s important to take care over important decisions, Wang warned students against vacillation, because “it indicates a lack of career planning”.“The most recent work experiences should be focused in a specific industry and should have lasted for no less than two months,” said Wang.The shallow youngSome job seekers may be similar, falling over themselves to snag “fancy” jobs depicted in movies or TV dramas, without a thorough understanding of either what the job entails, or whether they are suited to the job.Li Shasha, a candidate in Jobs Come Jobs Go, dreamed of working in administration, like the heroine in the TV drama Go Lala Go! But she’d mistaken the role, believing the administration work to be similar to that of customer service.“You may leave a bad impression on the HR if you appear to know nothing about, or even misunderstand, the job you’re applying for,” Bai warned.However, Wang revealed that some HRs would hire rookies as long as they were able to show adequate learning ability through their on and off campus activities.She also cautioned against feigning mastery of a subject which you know little about.
