Find a balance to tackle timewasting
The end of the holiday means that life returns to normal – or worse than normal – if you are a procrastinator like Shen Li and have been putting work off to the last minute. Shen, 27, is a website editor in Beijing. Before the holiday, her boss told her to plan a special spring edition. She had a whole week to do it. Plenty of time for online shopping and reading first. On the eve of the deadline, she hadn’t worked out a single word. “I don’t have other tasks to finish first,” Shen admitted. “I just have no appetite for work until it becomes urgent.” Procrastination is common, both in the workplace and on campus. Shen has found that many peers’ habits of putting off work are formed at school. College students will be familiar with Wei Xiao’s experience. The 22-year-old postgraduate in journalism from Peking University decided to write an essay one month before it was due. However, she started to write her essay only one day before the deadline. Wei then spent the whole day on Renren.com and micro blogs to “take a break”. She ended up writing all night and barely met the deadline.Fixed habitsAccording to Lu Xuebin, a career expert from Datihu.com, the problem of procrastination reflects young people’s failure to change their mindset formed during high school days.“There’s nothing to be proud of if a college student bones up for exams and gets good marks,” said Lu. “College years are the transition period leading to the workplace, where procrastination is definitely a big no-no.” Interestingly, Shen said she saw that point when she graduated and started working. However, when she finished tasks ahead of the deadline, the boss showed suspicion rather than satisfaction. The boss might hint, “Have you done all the work you can?” Instead, colleagues who put off work and looked busy at the last minute were regarded as “diligent”.Fang Chao, 25, has worked at an accounting firm in Beijing for three years. He also talked about colleagues’ influence on his putting off dealing with tasks.Fang said: “Colleagues might think you are seeking the boss’s attention if you hand in assignments faster than anyone else.” Faced with such a dilemma, smart employees should adopt a balanced schedule, instead of procrastinating, said Lu. Take an assignment due in three days for example. You can use Day One to work out the first draft, Day Two to ask colleagues for advice and Day Three to improve your final version.If slacking off is an accepted and unwritten practice among colleagues, young professionals should think of changing –not themselves–but jobs.“You may need to change your job if you cannot accept such a corporate culture,” said Lu. “If you choose to stay, you can still work fast and use the remaining time to develop your interest in reading or writing to keep improving yourself.” Shen Li, Wei Xiao and Fang Chao are not the real names of the interviewees. 
