Time to gain experience
Gone are the days when the winter vacation meant idling about. Now, more and more college students are looking for part-time jobs to get experience or earn some pocket money.Most winter breaks are quite short, therefore part-time jobs with flexible schedules are favored.Eventful roleWang Danning, an industrial design major student at Tianjin University of Science & Technology, works as a hostess during winter vacations.“Such jobs are often introduced to others by people who have related work experience,” says the 21-year-old. “I was introduced by my roommate.”Hostesses are paid per event, which normally last for one day or several hours. They can earn 150-300 yuan a day.“But it’s not easy money,” she says. “We need to walk in high heels and serve guests.”After working for several events, Wang now knows many people in this circle who offer her plenty of work opportunities. But she only accepts those that fit her schedule.Experience countsDifferent from Wang, Guan Zhang focuses more on the experiences he can get from part-time jobs.The 22-year-old water conservancy major at Tsinghua University was recommended by his upperclassman to work as a counselor at a winter camp. His major responsibility was to take care of a group of middle school students during their six-day tour around Beijing.“That’s perfect for me because I can finish the job before Spring Festival,” he says.Guan earns 150-200 yuan a day, but he thinks the value of his part-time job lies more in the personal skills he acquires. Since the camp members are young, whenever he talks to them or give them instructions, he “needs to be patient”.“Besides, I’m the first person they turn to when they have a problem. It’s a good opportunity to improve my problem-solving skills,” he says.Skills that pay offNot all part-time jobs have a flexible work time. For seniors, 9-to-5 jobs are better, says Chen Qiujuan, a 22-year-old material science and engineering major student at Beihang University.Chen applied online and landed a 9-to-5 part-time job at Meituan.com. She only earns 1,500 yuan a month, but she’s happy with it.“I’m graduating this year. This experience will help me get ready for the workplace,” she says.The company holds meetings every Friday, during which creative ideas are exchanged.“I found it valuable because I got to know how other people think about or treat an issue. I could never learn such skills without dipping into the real world,” says Chen.Choose carefullyRetail, service and training industries normally have a huge demand for part-time employees during the Spring Festival season, says Li Xiaoru, director of the recruiting department at Jilin province’s talent market. But she warns students to be cautious about the employer’s credibility.“It is sensible to work for a company of good reputation,” she says. “If possible, students should also visit the company and see whether it meets their expectations before making a decision.”
