Season of change
It was the first workday after the Spring Festival. As others tried to get used to work again, many young professionals submitted their resignation letter without the promise of a new job in hand.Take Guiyang in Guizhou province for example. The local human resources authority estimates that more than 30 percent of job seekers after the Spring Festival are newly unemployed professionals, according to Guiyang Daily.They quit for different reasons, but experts suggest that such a move *entails certain risks.Huang Ya, a 24-year-old graduate from Zhejiang Yuexiu University of Foreign Languages, quit her job because she found it stressful and *unpromising. During the past two years at a small company in Zhejiang, her workload kept increasing, but her salary remained around 2,500 yuan.The idea of quitting popped into her mind last year. But she decided to hold on until the Spring Festival.“Many of my colleagues did the same because we wanted the annual bonus,” she said.Others, however, didn’t think of quitting until the Spring Festival.Unexpected problemZhang Zheng, a 25-year-old graduate from Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, worked at a State-owned enterprise in Beijing. He was not happy with his job, but was too busy to think of any change.“During the week-long holiday I had time to think about my career plans,” he said. “I then talked to my friends and developed a plan for a start-up.”After the holiday, he quit his job and set up a company with his friends.Both Huang and Zhang felt *relieved when they told their respective bosses “I quit.” But the good feeling didn’t last long.Huang admits that she’s unsure about what she wants to do. Also, no company has offered her a job.As for Zhang, he has encountered an unexpected but serious problem — he cannot continue to pay for his social security.“I’ve already had a social security record for three years. If I stop paying it now, I won’t be *eligible for buying an apartment or applying for a car number plate in Beijing,” he said.Li Xiangyu, a senior consultant at Zhilian Recruiting, suggests that young professionals think carefully about their next steps before quitting.“One important thing to note is that employers tend to have a bad impression of candidates who quit *impulsively without a job offer,” Li said.“In their eyes, such candidates can’t face up to difficulties, so when problems occur, they will quit again.”
