Minimarket magicians
Outside of Huilongguan subway station, Beijing, is a small shop called Mr Food that sells vegetables and meat. Many people who live in this most populous residential community stop by Mr Food to pickup groceries ordered online.Surprisingly, the shop’s founders are three 28-year-old sociology graduates from Renmin University of China. Instead of founding a business related to their major, they founded one that addresses a market need.Career shiftRen Mu, one of Mr Food’s founders, has worked as a public relations specialist at a Beijing-based company before setting up the new business. As a PR consultant, he often rode the subway to and from work. After pulling himself from the crowd at Huilongguan station, he often felt lonely and exhausted, missing the feeling of home-cooked meals prepared by his mother.“After moving from Shandong to Beijing, the only inconvenience I ever felt was when I was deciding what to have for dinner,” he said. He’d often eat at a small restaurant nearby, but the food often didn’t taste good and was unsanitary. So, he decided to start selling his own ingredients.Researching successHe came up with the idea for this new startup after a lot of trial and error. “I made several startup attempts, but none of them worked because of a lack of market research,” he said. So when he discussed this business idea with his partners. They made market research their first step.For an entire week, Ren went to Xinfadi, Beijing’s biggest wholesale market for meat and vegetables, on a daily basis. “I wrote down the price of dozens of vegetables, while my two partners took note of prices at supermarkets and vegetable vendors,” he said. They compared their findings in order to make sure they put their groceries at the right price point.“The profit margin when selling vegetables is about 100 percent. Make it simple, if a vegetable is sold at 1 yuan per 500 g at Xinfadi, then it can be sold at 2 yuan per 500 g in the supermarket, and 3 to 4 yuan at vegetable vendors in residential areas,” he said.Targeted serviceHowever, Ren and his partners faced another challenge — how they could compete with other vegetable vendors. They took aim at office workers, who want to eat healthy food yet have little time to actually cook.“We do all the preparation for them, cutting vegetables and meat to ready-to-cook form,” Ren said. “If they don’t know how to cook and what to put in the dish, we even have packed vegetables and meat for certain dishes.”Now with a concrete business idea and solid market research under their belt, Ren and his partners opened their first store in March and second chain store in April. In total, they have attracted thousands of frequent customers and over 10 million yuan from angel investors.
