Grow up and learn to abide by office rules
A picture of pear (yali) stands for “pressure”, which shares a similar pronunciation with the fruit in Chinese. One post-90s girl who goes by the online name of Xiao Wei, was taking notes of a meeting all in such type of slang which is popular with many young people. But she was out of “RP” (renpin), which means “luck” in online slang-speak: Her boss confused at reading her notes, gave her a real dressing down.Xiao Wei later posted her notes on the BBS of Chengdu.cn and stated her “grievances”: “I’m a post-90s girl and I use ‘post-90s style’ language, and for this I may get fired!”Like Xiao Wei, many youngsters find that their use of trendy online slang, elaborate emoticons and wacky cell phone ring tones may not be appreciated in the workplace.Annoying ring tonesA survey on “workplace cell phone ring tones” by Zhaopin.com in March, 2009, asked around 5,000 respondents what ring tones they found most annoying. While loud ring tones were hated most, “indecent” and “wacky” ring tones came second and sixth respectively.Besides annoying colleagues, such habits might also make people question your maturity and professionalism, according to Cao Yong, a finance manager at China Petroleum Engineering & Construction Corporation.“A lack of awareness regarding office rules and workplace etiquette causes workplace freshmen to bring inappropriate habits to the workplace,” said Cao. “They often behave no differently at work to how they behaved in school.”He attributes such behavior to an inability to switch from a school to workplace mindset quickly enough.Difficult taskAccording to Cao, the first lesson for workplace freshmen should involve role playing. This will help them to hide their private-life personalities and “play” at being serious, professional members of staff in the workplace. However, many freshmen find this a difficult task.Edison Sun, 20, (who preferred not to tell her real Chinese name), is a researcher at a Shanghai-based firm of headhunters. She is a bubbly character who will always respond with a long string of “ha-ha” in online chats with friends. But she has been reduced to using no more than “” in office e-mails, and is forced to forgo her huge collection of cartoon emoticons and funny slang vocabulary.“It’s totally not me. I don’t want to change my habits and fake like this,” Sun complained. “I should be respected as a professional if I can do my job and take care of business to a high standard.”Clear communicationSupervisors, however, are more demanding as far as the definition of workplace professionalism goes. “It is not about abandoning all your habits and being hypocritical. It’s about choosing the mode of behavior and expression that best suits each situation in order to ensure clear communication,” said Wang Han, deputy director of government affairs of Taobao.com.Taking her own advice, Wang uses trendy slang to facilitate communication with her younger clients, while switching to more formal language in her dealings with older ones.Cao Yong warned that besides harming your professional progress, bringing “trendy” habits into the workplace may also give your boss a bad impression of you, and you may not even be aware of it.For example, Cao said he would question the work ethic and attitude of an employee whose signature was too cynical or maverick.“After all, it’s generally accepted that it’s best to be serious and low-key in the workplace,” he concluded.
