Crowd funding not risk free
Luo Yi is sitting back in a cafe near the University of International Business and Economics, just like everyone else. The difference is that the 25-year-old is also the owner of the cafe, along with other 133 peers.The cafe is called Our’s Cafe, it targets college students and young professionals in the neighborhood. And it is the result of a crowd-funding project to which 134 individuals contributed 2,000 yuan a share. Many students long to realize their dream of owning a company through this new method of starting up a business. But experts warn that crowd funding can be risky.Our’s Cafe started as a post on Douban.com in 2011, which proposed to raise funds for a cafe that would belong to every investor. Hundreds of netizens responded since it was an entirely new business model. “Our’s Cafe was the first project featuring crowd funding in China,” says Lou He, a Shanghai-based startup lawyer and a partner at Hiways Law Office.Being a pioneer means more hard work and detours. According to the Law of Corporation, the maximum number of shareholders in a limited liability company is 50. Since there were 134 investors, they had to agree on entrusted shareholding. It took a lot of time to work out their corporate policy.“Even though we trusted each other and invested our money before even signing any contracts, we think such a policy is necessary in the long run,” Guo Wenhui, a board member, says.To Luo Yi, 25, senior at Beihang University, the cafe is more than just a business - it gives him a sense of belonging.“Our’s Cafe is like a second home for me, where shareholders have fun together and offer each other the warmth of family,” he says.Wu Tong’s reasons for taking part in the project are different - the economics major at Peking University wanted to start her own business. The 24-year-old says that investing Our’s Cafe allowed her to see a start-up company from the inside.“I download each month’s financial statement and board meeting summary to keep track of the state of operations,” she says.Wu found that Our’s Cafe was being dragged down by the number of shareholders. “Everybody has a say in how the business should be run. The result is that we never reach an agreement or put anything into practice,” she says.Han Fuling, professor and dean of the Applied Finance Department at the Central University of Finance and Economics, stressed the importance of a sensible organizational structure.“In the long run, the absence of an organizational structure that allows shareholders to perform their functions will lead to the demise of a company,” he says.Han thinks that Our’s Cafe is unique because crow-funding projects are often based on a central idea, product or technology. In order to sustain a profitable development, he recommends Our’s Cafe build a clear brand image that a certain group of people can identify with. “That’s the only way a company can create repeat customers,” he says.
