Sci-fi show mirrors reality
In the opening credits for the TV show Person of Interest, a voice growls: “You are being watched.” For the first few seasons, it seemed like just another gimmick to drum up interest in the science-fiction show. Now that the series is entering its final run, however, the line feels less like shtick and more like prophecy.Created by Jonathan Nolan in 2011, Person of Interest centers on ex-CIA agent John Reese (Jim Caviezel) and computer genius Finch (Michael Emerson), who use a surveillance program – the Machine – run by artificial intelligence to prevent violent crimes in the US.Person of Interest airs its final episode on June 21, wrapping up a storyline that delved into modern-day spy games and government overreach. However, over the course of five years, the show has become increasingly subversive. It has morphed from a purely fictional drama into a mirror for reality.In Person of Interest, the Machine tracks the movements and communications of everyone in the US through phones, satellites and surveillance cameras. In hindsight, the Machine’s data-mining abilities seem eerily similar to that of PRISM, the secret surveillance program run by the US National Security Agency and exposed by former CIA contractor Edward Snowden in 2013.“A show that is always a little bit ahead of technology and some of these ethical issues that we’re going to be grappling with as a society –that sticks with people,” the show’s executive producer Greg Plageman said to USA Today.Person of Interest also gives its viewers a look into how technology is manipulating us. With every tap on a phone and click on a keyboard, people generate data about themselves. This allows algorithms to predict each individual’s behaviors. That’s how computers know which books to suggest and which articles to promote to their users.“Your phone is there to sell you advertising and to tell multinational corporations about you. It’s not there to provide you answers; it’s not there to avoid a traffic jam,” Nolan told Slate magazine. “That’s not what they’re selling. That’s the sweetener.”Inspired by Person of Interest, an array of shows featuring artificial intelligence and data mining have been released. The 2014 show Intelligence followed the adventures of a man who had access to all the data centers in the world. The upcoming sci-fi drama Westworld will likewise wade into the murky world of artificial intelligence. Its production team has a familiar face for Person of Interest fans: Nolan is credited with creating that show as well.Person of Interest not only presents viewers with a paranoid thriller and a breath-taking premise, but it also shows the audience a glimpse into the future. “Watching Person of Interest, you can’t help noticing how useful the show is in thinking about the future of the surveillance society,” said The New Yorker’s Joshua Rothman.
