Who’s your favorite Pixar hero?
On the surface, Pixar movies are for kids. But after decades of acknowledgment by the Academy Awards, they’ve crossed over into the realm of movies made for kids that adults are allowed to like, too.So it’s totally understandable if you were excited by Pixar’s big announcement earlier this month: its new movie Finding Dory, the sequel to 2003’s Finding Nemo, is coming in November 2015.Sure, that’s more than two years away, so it seems a bit crazy to talk about it now. But when US talk show host Ellen DeGeneres revealed on her show that she’s returning as Dory (she also played the voice of Dory in Finding Nemo), the audience let out a deafening roar. And there weren’t even any children in the crowd.Whether it’s the story of a lovelorn robot in Wall-E or a bunch of toys just trying to find their way home in Toy Story, we all have a favorite Pixar movie. With that and the big announcement in mind, we’ve decided to make you feel better about liking Pixar movies.Toy Story (1995, 1999, 2010)What it’s about: A group of toys and dolls, led by Woody and Buzz Lightyear, come to life when their master Andy is not around and embark on different adventures, whether it’s trying to get home, rescuing their mates or planning their great escape.Liking the Toy Story series more than the other Pixar movies is a cop-out, really, because they’re the ones everyone likes. They were the first, and they are the most universally beloved of all the Pixar movies, with their themes of acceptance, curiosity, and loyalty. Toy Story is the cold glass of milk of Pixar movies: classic, simple, and satisfying ― a staple of any movie diet. It means you’re kind of boring, like a glass of milk.Finding Nemo (2003)What it’s about: Nemo, a young clown fish, is stolen from his home. His father and a blue tang fish named Dory go on an underwater adventure in order to find Nemo and bring him back.You’re living on your own and realizing how big and scary the world is. Deep down all you really want is to go home and spend time with your parents. But instead, you’re out there swimming―swimming around, hoping for the best and never, ever stopping.The Incredibles (2004)What it’s about: Mr Incredible and his wife Helen, who were the world’s most famous crime-fighting superheroes, are now living a “normal” life with their three children. When Mr Incredible is offered the chance to play the role of a superhero again, it turns out to be a trap. It takes a superfamily effort to rescue the world from total destruction.You like it when dysfunctional families come together to achieve something spectacular. You’re probably a huge Modern Family fan, wishing that your family could come together in the holidays. You are also part of the most neglected fan base in the Pixar community, and for that our heart goes out to you.
