She got an online voice
THE Internet has not seen anything quite like Susan Boyle, whose online popularity is headed straight into the history books.The video of Boyle’s performance on the reality show Britain’s Got Talent has set the record for the number of views in a week–and it shows no sign of slowing down.According to Visible Measures, which tracks videos from Youtube.com, Myspace.com and other video-sharing sites, all Boyle-oriented videos have generated a total of 85.2 million views. Nearly 20 million of those views came overnight.But it’s not just in online video where Boyle, the unassuming woman from a tiny Scottish town, has dominated.Over the weekend, her Facebook fan page was flooded with comments. The page listed 150,000 members at 1 pm on April 10. By the night of April 12, there were more than a million.Indeed, the sleepless Internet is her round-the-clock stage, and the 47-year-old who has said she’s never heard of Youtube is the Web’s hottest entertainer.To media observers, the speed and scope of Boyle’s online ubiquity is a testament to the fact that the marriage between old media and new media is broadening the reach of all media–from one channel toHer performance first aired on British TV then made its way to Youtube and Facebook."What we’re really seeing with Susan Boyle is the power of ’spreadability’," according to Henry Jenkins, co-director of MIT’s comparative media studies program."Consumers in their own online communities are making conscious choices to spread Susan Boyle around online," Jenkins said.At any given moment, on any particular site, someone is passing along Boyle online. Online users interviewed said the emotions summoned by the video run the gamut: from laughter to cynicism to surprise. Others said they were sure it was a hoax, only to find themselves watching the video again and again.Tanya Gold, the Guardian ： Why are we so shocked when "ugly" women can do things, other than sitting at home weeping and wishing they were somebody else?Susan will probably win Britain’s Got Talent. ... But Susan Boyle will be the freakish exception that makes the rule.By raising this Susan up, we will forgive ourselves for grinding every other Susan into the dust. Amy Wilentz, Los Angeles Times : Already she has appeared on Scottish television with her hair seemingly darkened and somehow forced into submission. The vintage women of the world beg you: Don’t lose a pound. Don’t buy a new wardrobe. No highlights! No Botox! Don’t touch chin one, or chin two.Mary Elizabeth Williams, Salon.com : When Boyle sings, our identification transfers instantly to her. She’s us.A regular, imperfect, unairbrushed person, an intimate friend of rejection and loneliness and mockery and disappointment. A person who, in spite of everything, clings resolutely to the conviction that
