Just like home? Well, not exactly
Over the weekend, 30 Japanese universities took part in the International Education Expo in Beijing. ROK, meanwhile, expects an influx of Chinese students, thanks to new exchanges between the two countries.Official figures show that in 2008 Chinese accounted for more than 60 percent of the foreign students in ROK and over 70 percent of those in Japan. While Chinese have many things in common with students in these two countries, they still encounter surprises every now and then. We explored some of these differences in interviews with people from all three countries:Dorm lifeLife in the dormitory will vary, depending on the country. Japanese residence halls often have common rooms that students use to host parties. Liu Jianquan, a 26-year-old student at the University of Tsukuba (an hour’s drive from Tokyo), said he sometimes has to call the police to get his Japanese dorm mates to quiet down. Koreans, meanwhile, are famous in Asia for their emotional behavior. Despite this, the dorms are more sedate than their Japanese versions. This can be attributed to the rules that govern the campuses in ROK.It also helps that ROK is such a small country. "Young people tend to choose local universities, so lots of students go home every day," said Kim’s classmate, Pan Xiaoyu, 20.Seniors get respectRemember young people nodding at their elders and giving way to them on campuses in Japanese and Korean TV dramas? Well, that’s no exaggeration. "We always respect elders for both their age and experience," said Hirotake Kobayashi, a 22-year-old student at Kyushu University in Japan.This still surprises Chinese newcomers. Liu described one time when Japanese undergrads invited him, a grad student, to dinner: "They stood to the side although I asked them to sit down. They kept bowing when speaking to me."Pan sees the same thing in ROK. "My local classmates remind me to bow to elders we meet on campus," said Pan. "If we meet freshmen, we can sit and talk casually."These campus actions are a microcosm of the two countries’ respect for tradition. "From childhood, people are taught to be polite to people around them," said Gao. "They consider it an easy way to live – not a burden."Off-campus pursuits A survey from China Youth and Children Research Center (CYCRC) this year found that many Japanese and Korean students lack an optimistic outlook about their future. About 59 percent of young Japanese and 58 percent of young Koreans say they "only want to be happy at the moment, and do not want to think about the future".Sun Yunxiao, the CYCRC deputy director, attributes this perspective to their uncertainty about their society’s future. "Also, their elders have created good living conditions, so they prefer to enjoy a comfortable life rather than worry about the hard work that lies ahead," Sun said.And this worries the older generation. "Lots of parents in these two countries are sending their children to study overseas so they will learn to live more independently," said Sun.
