This whole situation is completely wrong
"Dear Ariel and Ben,I’m a 19 year-old college girl. I’ve fallen in love with a 53 year-old-man from Romania.I was learning Spanish by myself on a website. I met him there, and found him so kind to help me with my Spanish. After a long mail exchange, we fell in love with each other. He’s romantic. But it’s still a virtual love. I know that, in the end, we will not be together.Virginity is still a strong concept in China. And I don’t know if I will lose my virginity when he visits me in July. For me, the forbidden fruit is attractive, but dangerous. He said he doesn’t want to force me to have sex with him. But I still feel uneasy.My problem to solve is: Is this a right love? Should I give my virginity to him this July?"From MesaAriel’s reply:There’s a phrase we use to describe your virtual Romanian lover: Dirty Old Man. This means a man who is much too old for the woman he’s chasing, and knows it, and goes after her anyway in the hope of having-how shall I say this politely? -hot sex.You say you’re feeling uneasy, and you should be! Despite what you may think, you DON’T have much in common with your Romanian friend. He’s old enough to be your father, he comes from a completely different culture, and, as with all relationships based entirely on Internet exchanges, you don’t really KNOW each other at all.He obviously wants to come to China to have sex with you, and I’m not impressed by his promise that he won’t "force you". Great - he’s promised you he won’t commit a violent crime against you and your body. Does he deserve praise for that? The fact that he would bring it up-even to promise he won’t do it-is deeply disturbing.Here is a basic rule about sex: If you’re feeling at all uncomfortable or uneasy, it’s not the right time. You should never put yourself or your body in this sort of situation unless you feel completely safe and sure about it.For your own safety, do NOT see this man. Tell him not to come to China. Tell him that you’d both be better off dating people your own age. And then, cut off your internet correspondence and come back to the real world.  ArielBen’s reply:IT’S very clear that you don’t need any advice. What you need is intervention!This whole situation just seems so completely wrong on so many levels.How did you ever expect to gain mastery of Spanish from an old Romanian man? Don’t you think it would be more productive to find a handsome Latino who isn’t old enough to be your grandfather?There is no way to know what this man’s true intentions are, but I suspect this guy is more than likely trying to shoplift your virginity. The internet can be full of dark, scary people who prey upon people’s naivety and innocence.I’m personally concerned about your falling into more serious things like underground internet sex trafficking. I think for now you should completely walk away from this situation because it is potentially dangerous.And as far as your virginity is concerned, if you were willing to lose it to an old Romanian man from the internet because of your attraction to the forbidden fruit, then you’re not mature enough to understand the repercussions of your actions.I suggest you find yourself a good man who is not virtual and hopefully from your country and generation. Then you should take your time to blossom into womanhood in a more conventional manner.  Ben
