Why live is better
Huang Jiaxi is a big fan of the latest music show The Voice of China. But she always wondered what it would be like to hear the live version of those hit songs.Recently, Huang visited a live music venue in Beijing and saw bands and singers perform right in front of her eyes. It was a whole new way of enjoying music.“Live music is addictive once you’ve experienced the atmosphere,” said the 21-year-old English major at University of Science and Technology Beijing.Fueled by music shows on TV and young people’s passion of forming bands, live music is booming in China’s major cities.According to American veteran music producer Kenny Bloom, who used to produce albums for Cui Jian, one of China’s biggest rock music stars, live music festivals are flourishing in China compared to the past.“Around 100 music festivals now take place in China every year,” Bloom told AFP in June. “Many are supported by local governments to boost local brands and the tourism industry.”For young people, it is the feeling of live music that appeals.Zhen Xing, 22, goes to live performances almost every weekend. He said the singer’s voice and the musicians’ gestures on stage are an indulging experience.“It’s totally different from listening to music on your iPod,” said Zhen, a senior from Renmin University of China. “It’s just overwhelming.”Steve Guttenberg, a US-based movie projectionist, agrees. He said the biggest difference between recorded and live music is the sound quality.“I’ve never heard anything close to that sound reproduced by even the very best high-end audio systems,” Guttenberg said, recalling a live concert.US-based music critic Leslie Gerber thought that recorded music sets wrong standards for live performances, thereby damaging their expressive quality.“Failure to take chances leads to the sterile, cautious music-making that critics frequently complain about,” said Gerber.So there is a creative spontaneity to live music that cannot be replicated in recordings.To Huang, it is a packed venue and interaction with musicians that bring the most fun.“We stand very close to performers, as if we are friends having a party,” she said.Feargal Sharkey, chair of the UK government’s Live Music Forum, agrees. In an interview with The Guardian, Sharkey said: “Live music is the closest and best interaction that people can get with those records they’ve been listening to. It just brings that bond closer. No other mechanism allows for that to happen.”
