2015 travel preview
Good news travelers! Well-known travel guide publisher Lonely Planet has issued its top 10 cities to visit in 2015. Some of the selections are home to big events, and others are relatively unknown, but all are worthy of an adventure.Here is a glimpse at some of the best places you can visit. Find your favorite and put it on your travel list for next year.Washington, DCRank: 1Attraction: History in the makingFrom the Washington Monument and John F. Kennedy Center all the way to Capitol Hill, the vigor of the US’ capital city is just as strong in real life as it is in House of Cards. The year 2015 marks the 150th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln’s assassination, and a series of special events will be held to commemorate the occasion. Lincoln’s famous top hat, the pistol that fired the deadly shot, and other artifacts from that fateful day will be on display.Milan, ItalyRank: 3Attraction: A cradle of fine dining and cultureIf you are a gastronome, don’t miss Milan in 2015. Expo 2015 will be held between May and October, and the focus is on food.The 1.1-square-kilometer fairgrounds will be laid out like a classical Roman city, with symmetrical avenues, a canal, and a huge artificial lake surrounded by pavilions. You can explore the food district, watch cooking demos, wander a plaza full of street musicians and dance performers, or indulge in nighttime wine-tasting.Plovdiv, BulgariaRank: 6Attraction: Architectural gems emerge after 800 yearsNestled behind Bulgaria’s dramatic Rhodope Mountains and filled with historical treasures by the thousand, Plovdiv is one of Europe’s most beautiful old towns. In recent years, it was transformed into a spirited modern city with charming cobblestoned streets, delicately painted houses, craft markets and quirky museums.Colorful landmarks like St Nedelya’s bell tower contrast against Brutalist creations like the central post office. Apart from cultural sites, you can explore the Asen’s Fortress, a Thracian outpost perched above jagged valleys.Salisbury, UKRank: 7Attraction: The Magna Carta’s 800th anniversaryFor too long Salisbury has been considered a short stop on the way to Stonehenge. But 2015 is set to be the year visitors linger in this city as it marks the 800th anniversary of the Magna Carta,  (Latin for “Great Charter”), which limited royal power and established the rights of common people. The highlight for the celebrations will be Salisbury Cathedral, whose Chapter House holds the Magna Carta. A brand new exhibition will launch in the Chapter House, alongside an array of talks, evensongs, and a flower festival.Chennai, IndiaRank: 9Attraction: Discover India’s other megacityWhile travelers rave about Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata, Chennai has always been an overlooked Indian megacity. But in 2015, the opening of the Chennai Metro Rail will make it a worthwhile stop. Chennai Metro Rail is the first integrated mass transit system in India, and it will transform the experience of exploring this humid city. Must-see destinations include: Dravidian temples, institutes for Indian classical dance, British-era fortifications and churches.
