Who’s your favorite Pixar hero?
On the surface, Pixar movies are for kids. But after decades of acknowledgment by the Academy Awards, they’ve crossed over into the realm of movies made for kids that adults are allowed to like, too.So it’s totally understandable if you were excited by Pixar’s big announcement earlier this month: its new movie Finding Dory, the sequel to 2003’s Finding Nemo, is coming in November 2015.Sure, that’s more than two years away, so it seems a bit crazy to talk about it now. But when US talk show host Ellen DeGeneres revealed on her show that she’s returning as Dory (she also played the voice of Dory in Finding Nemo), the audience let out a deafening roar. And there weren’t even any children in the crowd.Whether it’s the story of a lovelorn robot in Wall-E or a bunch of toys just trying to find their way home in Toy Story, we all have a favorite Pixar movie. With that and the big announcement in mind, we’ve decided to make you feel better about liking Pixar movies.Up (2009)What it’s about: By tying thousands of balloons to his home, 78-year-old widower Carl Fredricksen sets out to fulfill his lifelong dream to see the wilderness of South America and to complete a promise made to his lifelong love.You like it when a movie breaks you down emotionally and then builds you back up again. You like a good cry. You’re a sucker for punishment. You also like good movies.Wall-E (2008)What it’s about: Far in the future, a robot named Wall-E is designed to clean up a waste-covered Earth. He falls in love with another robot named Eve, who also has a programmed task, and follows her into outer space on an adventure that changes the destiny of both his kind and humanity.You’re a big Meg Ryan fan. Or, at the very least, movies about unrequited love are your favorite. You’ve probably seen You’ve Got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle enough times to know each and every line off by heart. You may also enjoy seeing the world destroyed and humans relegated to being fat, lazy drones floating in space. It’s a toss-up, really.Brave (2012)What it’s about: Set in Scotland in a rugged and mythical time, Merida, an aspiring archer and the impetuous daughter of a royal couple, makes a reckless choice that unleashes unintended peril and forces her to spring into action to set things right.Some of you may count it as a personal victory that Pixar finally had a female lead. You’re probably a fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer (a TV series that features young female vampires). You have a Katniss Everdeen (The Hunger Games heroine) phone background, and you like archery.
