Secrets of our pets
What do pets do when their owners are not around? It’s a question that *haunts pet lovers. So when Chris Meledandri, the founder of Illumination–the animation house behind Despicable Me–posed this question to Despicable Me co-director Chris Renaud, they both agreed to explore the answer in a movie.That’s how The Secret Life of Pets came to be. It depicts how dogs, cats and birds cope with their days alone and their pet-to-pet friendships in the Big Apple.The movie, to be released in Chinese cinemas on Aug 2, has been a huge hit since its Hollywood debut on July 8. As of July 24, it has grossed about $260 million (1.7 billion yuan) at the US box office. But the film’s success is not only the result of its intriguing premise, but also of its *anthropomorphic approach, which *endows animals with human-like qualities.Anthropomorphism is hardly a new concept, according to Ramin Setoodeh of Variety Entertainment. Aesop’s fables in ancient Greece were some of the earliest, most famous stories to use this technique. “Starting in the 1920s, the entertainment industry got into the talking animal business with Walt Disney’s Mickey Mouse competing with Warner Bros’ Bugs Bunny,” Setoodeh wrote. What followed was a wave of talking animals on screen, in films like Bambi (1941) and shows like Mister Ed (1958-1966), featuring a deer and horse respectively.This year, talking animals have been especially active on screen. If you look at box office charts, you’ll find that, of the top 12 biggest films so far in the US, half of them have featured talking animals. That list includes Disney’s The Jungle Book and Zootopia, as well as Fox’s Kung Fu Panda 3 and Sony’s The Angry Birds Movie.Why is that? “These cuddly creatures are serving as an *antidote to dark times in the world,” Setoodeh writes. “Some executives in Hollywood are starting to wonder if audiences are growing *weary of bullets and *apocalyptical imagery on the big screen, because of all the real-life tragedies from mass shootings and terrorism attacks.”Quick-witted animals offer an escape. “It’s a concept that people understand, get and really like,” Jeff Bock, an analyst at the entertainment research firm Exhibitor Relations, told Variety Entertainment. “We love these creatures. Put in a human *persona, and people go gaga.”
