Parallel destinies
Like in fashion, trends in the gaming world are constantly evolving. The newfound popularity of point-and-click adventure game Broken Age can’t be a better example of this.At the end of last month, Broken Age Act 2 was released to a solid review from IGN, a gaming and entertainment website. IGN describes the game as “smart, fun, [and] challenging” and says the whole game “ushered in a new era for the point-and-click genre”. First released in early 2014, Broken Age Act 1 was developed by Tim Schafer, a US game designer. It tells the stories of a man and a woman leading parallel lives.Vella is a young woman who rejects her fate as a sacrificial lamb to the beast called Mog Chothra, while Shay is a lonely young man on a spaceship who wants to escape from a boring life and do something grand.Most enjoyment lies in the game’s puzzle design. With a minimal use of menus, the puzzle-solving process is streamlined. You just click and drag the items to use them on various objects.Unlike Act 1, “the puzzles in Act 2 are much larger, more complicated tasks, but most of the time that means the reward for solving them is that much sweeter,” Marty Sliva, an IGN editor, said.In Act 2, these two characters switch positions. “Vella continues to develop as a determined and strong character. Meanwhile, Shay’s experience with being duped makes him particularly well-suited to deal with Broken Age’s cast of supporting characters,” US game magazine Game Informer noted.The game’s visual design is also impressive. The coloring and animations have a chalk-like texture, creating an almost tangible feeling, IGN said. In an age when most games are designed with 3-D models, its 2-D design evokes a sense of nostalgia.Though the game is relatively simple, featuring fights and escapes, it still manages to present a story with deep connotations. The narrative addresses themes we can all relate to, like loneliness, sacrifice and growing up, Sliva wrote.All in all, like global game magazine PC Gamer wrote, “as a nostalgia trip, a casual adventure, and a world to explore, it’s pleasant and very pretty company”.
