Farmer-turned singers move thousands
Two Chinese farmers who became an overnight sensation when their heart-rending version of a famous pop song appeared on the Internet took to the stage in front of thousands of fans in Shanghai last Saturday.Wang Xu, 44, and Liu Gang, 29, sang "In the Spring" alongside the song’s star composer Wang Feng, in front of about 80,000 people at the Shanghai Stadium.The audience buzzed with excitement and let out deafening cheers, the moment as they were introduced on the stage and then when Liu started first sentence of their parts of the song.The two migrant workers became stars after singing the tearjerker song during an evening drinking session in a 6-square-meter rented room in a late August evening. A friend recorded the performance on a cellphone and posted it on the Internet.In the video, the pair are shirtless and sweating. Liu sits playing the guitar, and Wang Xu stands singing."If someday I am dead, please bury me in the spring," they sing. Wang’s penetrating chorus, delivered with his eyes closed, has moved thousands to tears.Wang and Liu consider the song a true portrait of vulnerable groups like themselves."With no credit card, no girlfriend, or a home with hot water, but only a guitar, I am singing happily, on streets, under bridges or in wild country, though nobody pays attention to the music," they sing.To support his wife and two sons, Wang came to Beijing in 2000 and has worked as boiler man, and street peddler, before becoming a medical warehouse keeper, with a monthly pay of around 1,500 yuan. Little is left after he pays 600 yuan for rent and buys food.Liu came to Beijing in 2002, two years after he ended military service. "I wanted to try my luck in the big city," he said. He had worked as a guard, roadside peddler, and porter, but never had a stable job. Busking was his main income, even after he married and become a father three years ago.Wang and Liu are still uncertain where their fame will lead. Wang has started learning to use a computer. They even have a microblog account to communicate with fans."We are happy and proud that so many people think the music video represents heartfelt expression of migrant workers and the underclass," Wang said.Wang and Liu want to continue singing, but underpasses are now out of the questions as the crowds they draw are too big.Wang appealed to the public to be more understanding of migrant workers."Please don’t look down upon migrant workers, who may be less educated, but are kindhearted," Wang said.
