Cute royal babies from across the world
1. British little princeOn July 22, Prince William and Princess Kate have welcomed Baby Windsor into the world at St. Mary’s Hospital in London. The blue-blooded baby was said to be weighed around 3.8 kilograms. The little prince will be the third in line to England’s throne after his grandfather and his father. With the birth of the baby, it has been the first time that the British Royal Family has four generations under one roof over 100 years.2. Spanish Princess— Princess LeonorHaving blond wavy hair and smiley blue eyes, the Spanish Princess Leonor carries her parents’ perfect genes. She is well behaved with her nice temperament in public. This Spanish future queen is beloved not only by her Spanish people, but also by the whole world. She is elected as the most favorable royal kid in the world by a German magazine.3. Norwegian Prince— Prince MagnusNothing can be better for a prince to wear the traditional folk style clothing in public. From Prince Magnus’s double-breasted coat to the vertical stripe vest, the folk style clothing makes this young prince adorable in another way.4. Swedish Princess— Princess EstelleClosest in age to Baby Windsor is Princess Estelle of Sweden, the daughter of Crown Princess Victoria and Prince Daniel. Second in line to the Swedish throne, the adorable little girl was born in February 2012 and is currently a year and five months old.5. The Denmark Royal FamilyThe people seen here are Crown Prince Frederik of Denmark and Princess Mary with their children. The eldest prince, Prince Christian was born on October 15, 2005, is the second in line to the Danish throne. The eldest princess, Princess Isabella, was born on April 21, 2007. She is the first princess in Denmark Royal Family over 60 years. The royal couple was holding the pigeon pair born in 2011-----Princess Vincent and Princess Josephine.With the help of his most stylish royal mother, Prince Christian has a good taste on clothing. He loves dressing like a gentleman-----the customized suit and jacket naturally makes young Prince Christian look royal anyway.6. Moroccan Princess—Princess KhadijaPrincess Lalla Khadija, daughter of Mohammed VI of Morocco and Princess Lalla Salma, was born in Royal Palace, Rabat in February, 2007. The Royal Family was so happy that the King granted a royal pardon to thousands of prison inmates in honor of the little princess’s birth.7. Belgian Princess—Princess ElisabethPrincess Elisabeth was born on October 25, 2001. Just 10 years before she was born, the Constitution of Belgium was revised so that the Princess Elizabeth becomes the second in line to the Belgian throne. Early this year, the Belgium Royal Family released a photo of the whole family on January 20 for celebrating the 37th birthday of Princess Mathilde.8. Netherland Princess—Princess Catharina-Amalia, Alexia and ArianeThese three young princesses with blond hair are daughters of King Willem Alexander and Queen Maxima of the Netherlands. The three princesses respectively are nine-year-old Catharina-Amalia, her sisters, eight-year-old Princess Alexia and six-year-old Princess Ariane. According to the rule of the Netherland Royal Family, Princess Catharina-Amalia, born on December 7, 2003, became heiress apparent when her father ascended the throne on 30 April 2013.
