Females come to the fore
The role of women in the entertainment industry is more important today than ever – and we don’t need International Women’s Day to remind us.While women such as Adele, Lady Gaga and Katy Perry dominate the world of music, directors are making films that focus on a particular female character. Here are some women characters from recent popular films.Albert Nobbs: a damaged woman in an age of menFrom Albert NobbsIt might be politically incorrect to say that “it’s a man’s world”. But in the film Albert Nobbs, you’ll see what it means.Based on a short story by Irish novelist George Moore, the film tells the story of Albert Nobbs, a woman passing herself as a man in 19th century Ireland.She has cropped hair, and a voice that rarely rises above a nasal croak. She lives and works as a waiter in a hotel, where she stands with lips pressed together and only her eyes move.The character is the personification of fear–fear of being discovered to be a woman. Because hers is a society that treats all poor people badly, but poor women worse.Mavis Gary: a perfection of being pretty and meanFrom Young AdultEveryone gets old. But not everyone grows up. In the comedy Young Adult, Charlize Theron portrays Mavis Gary, a 30-something narcissistic beauty.Mavis was the prom queen when in high school, and now a decade into life on her own, she’s still pretty, still mean and hasn’t quite as grown up as people around her want her to be. She spends her days writing young adult novels, and her nights making the club scene, drinking, playing around.The film depicts how she wakes up to the idea that she may need to make changes if she ever wants to be happy.Ah Tao: a role model of lifetime’s hard workFrom A Simple LifeA Simple Life, the latest work from Hong Kong veteran director Ann Hui, reunites superstar Andy Lauwith his real-life godmother Deanie Ip.The story centers on the bond between 70-something servant Ah Tao (Ip) and Roger (Lau). Ah Tao has served Roger’s family for 60 years, and Roger is the last to remain in Hong Kong. When Ah Tao’s health starts to get worse, it’s Roger’s turn to do the looking-after.The film is a tender ode to the elderly, their caregivers, and the mutual generosity of spirit that makes their limited time together worthwhile.Wallis Simpson: a drop-dead gorgeous fairytale heroineFrom W.E.W.E. is pop diva Madonna’s second go at directing a film. It’s primarily a woman’s story–a historical drama built around the romance of Wallis Simpson, the twice-divorced American for whom King Edward VIII gave up the British throne in 1936, in order to marry.In the film, the character of Wallis Simpson is an example of a woman who causes “the downfall” of a king. She is a helpless romantic–who thinks all it takes for a woman to feel fulfilled is the love of a good man.
