Surfing to stardom
By an isolated beach off the coast of Mexico, a woman surfs near the shore. Her surfboard soars into the air as the waves rise, before crashing back down upon them. Suddenly, she *plunges beneath the water. Upon rising back to the surface, a great white shark sinks its jaws into her *thigh, dragging her back under.This describes a terrifying scene from one of summer’s most entertaining thrillers, The Shallows. US actress Blake Lively, 29, plays a young woman, Nancy Adams, who takes an emotional trip to the *secluded beach where her mother died surfing years before. And, apart from the vicious sea creature, Lively is one of the very few living beings shown on screen throughout the entire film.“It was super *intimidating, which is one of the reasons I wanted to do it,” Lively told Entertainment Weekly. “An isolation film is, I think, one of the greatest undertakings you can take as an actor because it’s all you, and it seems like a terrible idea, and why would anyone want to watch all you for that long?”This is Lively’s debut *foray into the world of isolation movies, but it’s by no means her first time on screen. For many, their memories of the actress begin with her role as “It-Girl” Serena van der Woodsen in Gossip Girl (2007-2012). In the TV series, she charmed the audience with her beauty, as well as her fashion-forward wardrobe.The show earned Lively a reputation as a style trendsetter but also left her stamped with a deep-rooted stereotype; “her acting hasn’t yet caught up to her algorithm-generated beauty,” as New York Times critic Wesley Morris put it. Lively later even berated her own talents in Gossip Girl, telling the South China Morning Post: “You’re not doing your best acting work, you’re not doing any level of artistry. You’re part of a pop culture machine.”To *hone her skills as an actor and try to prove her potential, Lively started to take more low-key roles. In Rebecca Miller’s The Private Lives of Pippa Lee (2009), she played an exotic bohemian dancer, while Ben Affleck’s crime tale The Town (2010) saw her portrayed as a junkie. And earlier this year saw an appearance of her in legendary director Woody Allen’s Café Society. “I didn’t care if it was one line, one scene, or playing a janitor,” she told the Independent.The Shallows would be a demanding movie for any actor. The character’s emotions jump from joyful to jarred in mere moments, showing reactions to an *agonizing death, and even having a shark *chomp away at her leg – yet Lively simply nailed it. Box office takings offer proof of the flick’s success – pulling in five times its budget – while the story stands out in the summer movie scene among the array of superhero stories. And feedback from critics shows that the actress is more than capable of surfing through a film solo.“Watching Lively *dodge a shark in The Shallows was one of the first times I found myself rooting for her,” VOX’s movie critic Alex Abad-Santos wrote. “It’s also her best onscreen performance in recent memory. When the lines are so clearly drawn – shark or woman – it’s easy to cheer for her.”
