Actor puts arts above ego
It’s hard to define Eddie Peng, the actor. Sometimes, on the big screen, he appears to be the perfect dreamboat, a tanned, hunky sportsman. And then, in other roles, he is completely unrecognizable: a villain, *devoid of any attractive qualities whatsoever.In the thriller Cold War II (《寒战2》), winner of the Chinese box office two weeks in a row, the 34-year-old actor plays Joe Lee, a criminal genius who gets arrested for a terrorist attack against the police and then escapes from *incarceration.“Audiences may hardly believe that I can portray a culprit of such high intelligence,” Peng told Movie View magazine. “He’s an interesting character. For every gesture and expression he makes, the righteous and evil sides inside him are fighting *furiously against each other.”Peng also shared with the magazine his criteria for picking *scripts – he only chooses a role if he finds it interesting or if it pushes him to explore new territory, artistically. It doesn’t matter whether the job is a leading role or just a *cameo.The *discerning taste that Peng professes to possess isn’t universally shared in show business. Getting top billing is often the primary concern. For instance, fan clubs for both Jing Boran and Lu Han released competing statements, claiming they will *boycott the upcoming adventure film Time *Raiders (《盗墓笔记》) unless their idol’s name is put at the top of the credits. Fans have made similar complaints on behalf of William Chan (陈伟霆) and Zhang Yixing, who co-star in the drama The Mystic Nine (《老九门 》), broadcast on Dragon TV.The tradition of setting store by the rankings on *billings, or fanwei, comes from the Japanese film industry. Some insiders believe that only the top-billing star should be credited for a film’s success or failure.Does being atop the billing really matter so much? Probably not. Chen Kun received great praise for his performance as a kung fu master in the 2011 wuxia film Flying Swords of Dragon Gate (《龙门飞甲》). But his name was only third on the film’s billing.Small roles can also be beneficial for rising actors hoping to *hone their craft. For Peng, one advantage to performing in Cold War is that he gets to act alongside award-winning actors including Aaron Kwok (郭富城) and Tony Leung Ka-fai (梁家辉). It’s a step up for Peng, even if he goes a notch down on the billing.
