Drama breaks the mold
How many times have you wished you could meet that perfect guy on campus? Or the girl of your dreams? Be careful what you wish for. Beneath that outward perfection may lie a creepy personality that you can’t bring yourself to like.That is the lesson taught by Cheese in the Trap, a South Korean series that upends all K-drama conventions.The show, adapted from a Web cartoon of the same title, centers on Hong Seol (Kim Go-eun), a plain-looking college girl, and an handsome upperclassman named Yoo Jung (Park Hae-jin).If it were another typical South Korean drama, the story would go like this: Yoo becomes attracted to Hong, despite her ordinariness, because she’s innocent and virtuous. They fall in love with each other, but neither one of them dares to say so aloud.That’s when the supporting character comes in. He’ll also desire Hong and comfort her whenever she needs it. But everyone knows the truth: No matter how good he is, he’s the fallback guy.Stop there, and forget about these clichés. Cheese in the Trap rebels against almost every one of them. Yoo’s romantic rival, Baek In-ho (Seo Kang-joon), is too bothered by his own problems to help Hong out.Yoo, similarly, deviates from the archetype for male leads in K-dramas. While these characters are often “dangerous men... safe to like, love and obsess about”, Yoo is scarier and sexier, according to The Straits Times.He put the audience on a roller coaster of emotions. As the story progresses, both Hong and the show’s viewers start to realize that Yoo achieves his goals at the expense of others’ happiness.The darker Yoo’s nature turns out to be, the more ambivalent the audience feels. Viewers end up glued to the couch, squeezing the pillows and whimpering out loud, “Which side of him is the real Yoo?” This dilemma is the “cheese in the trap” for the series’ audience.Watching Cheese in the Trap can be addictive, but it’s educational too, thanks to its realistic depiction of campus life. Hong has to deal with academic problems, like when she’s partnered with a team of slackers for a class presentation. No matter how hard she tries to motivate them, she fails until she realizes that communication matters most in teamwork. That’s just one of the many practical lessons the drama offers.“This show will have you constantly wondering what will happen next, surprising you at every turn, in a good way,” commented The Michigan Journal.
