China’s Grammys
All eyes were on the 23rd Golden Melody Awards–the Chinese equivalent of the Grammys–last Saturday, held at the Taipei Arena in Taiwan.Although some say that the Golden Melody Awards have become stale in recent years, last Saturday night’s ceremony brought many surprises. Here, we’ve picked several highlights.Mayday’s clean sweepThe biggest winner of this year’s Golden Melody Awards was definitely Mayday. The pop band made a clean sweep taking home six of the top honors including best band, best song and best Mandarin album.Our thoughts: The three-year wait for Mayday’s eighth album Second Round was totally worth it.The five-member band has long become a legend in the Chinese music world. More importantly, they are an inspiration. Their perseverance and hard work inspire so many artists to keep making music, even under gloomy circumstances in the music industry.Their songs also inspire listeners to remain positive.S.H.E. steals the showIt was three-piece girl group S.H.E. who stole the show with its first performance since 2010, when Selina Jen, suffered burn injuries in a filming accident.The three members each performed their own singles, before coming together to perform a remix of the group’s hits Shero and Super Star. Jen was visibly moved as she shed tears during her performance.Our thoughts: Yes, it was probably the most touching moment of the night. The three members have been through a lot since their debut in 2001, especially in the past two years. So the reunion was memorable for the group and its fans.The 10-minute performance not only showed off the achievements of the three members’ solo careers, it also announced something more exciting: S.H.E. is back.Surprising best male artistThe title of best male artist came as a jaw-dropping surprise. Taiwanese rocker Luantan Ascent beat four better-known rivals–including Eason Chan, last year’s winner Jay Chou and rising talent Yoga Lin–to be crowned best male singer.Our thoughts: To many, the first reaction must be: who is Luantan Ascent?Luantan Ascent (real name Chen Tai-xiang) is an aboriginal songwriter/producer in Taiwan. He began to step into the spotlight after winning the best original song for the film Jump Ashin! at last year’s Golden Horse Awards.It’s clear that the judges here want to give the audience something fresh in this category and encourage Taiwanese aboriginal singers to make mainstream music.Third time is a charmSingaporean singer-songwriter Tanya Chua bagged the prestigious best female singer award, her third win in this category in six years. Chua has equaled the record of accomplished Taiwanese singers Sarah Chen and Stella Chang, who each have three wins to their names.Our thoughts: Compared with the male category, this award came with no surprise at all–even a little clichéd–because Chua has been nominated seven times for best female singer. Her rivals, such as A-Mei Chang and Stefanie Sun were strong enough to beat her.However, the judges favored Chua. And this award, according to Chua herself, was partly a tribute to her father, who passed away last year, and to whom Chua’s album Sing It Out of Love is dedicated.
