Coming to a screen near you
Some of the most intriguing, dynamic, or just plain interesting TV series in the US and UK are usually launched in the fall of every year. But if you are a die-hard fan, you will know that it’s not the only season in which to expect good shows. Quite a few noteworthy series are heading to your TV screen this winter. Here, we round up a few new and returning television shows, from the intriguing to the sensational, that will keep you warm and entertained during the chilly winter months.Girls (HBO)Return date: Jan 13The second season of the biting HBO comedy–one of the most discussed shows in 2012–finds Hannah (Lena Dunham, who also wrote, directed and produced the series) and her friends continuing to struggle with adulthood: Hannah and her gay ex-boyfriend Elijah become roommates; Marnie loses everything she’s worked for; Jessa comes to terms with her impulsive marriage, and Shoshanna discovers life post-virginity.In short, Girls is back and better than ever.Shameless (Showtime)Return date: Jan 13The Gallaghers are back for a third season that promises to outdo the previous two in drama, heartache, and humor. Fiona and Jimmy are back together again and living in the Gallagher house, where Jimmy (formerly “Steve”) has taken to being Mr Mom of the family. But issues from Steve’s past always show up to wreck the happiness he and Fiona have found… with bloody consequences.It seems impossible not to fall in love with Fiona, or to watch her struggles without cringing and crying.The Following (Fox)Launch date: Jan 31Kevin Williamson, who created The Vampire Diaries, turns his attention to the violent world of serial killers with the psychological thriller The Following, which stars Kevin Bacon and James Purefoy. Bacon’s disgraced former FBI agent Ryan Hardy and Purefoy’s sadistic serial killer Joe Carroll become enmeshed in a game of manipulation and murder, as a killing spree unfolds across the US.One big question about The Following, however, is how this violent show will test the boundaries of broadcast network standards and practices.Community (NBC)Return date: Feb 7Remember when Community, NBC’s wildly inventive comedy, was on the air? Fans have been counting the days until the show’s return and that day is almost here, though creator Dan Harmon didn’t return for the show’s fourth season.What is certain is that Community–which focuses on a diverse study group at a community college and their strange adventures–will be under intense scrutiny, as fans analyze how well the show is run by its new creators. Are they still planning on six seasons and a movie? Find out in February.
