You've got a lot of choices
SUMMER vacation is a perfect opportunity to reflect on last season’s shows and look ahead to the next season.24 featured yet another action-packed season, with a security breach that threatened the US government’s computer networks. The show also introduced its first female President. We’ll have to wait until January 17, 2010 to see the fearless Jack Bauer again.Gossip Girl’s main stars have graduated from high school, but we’ll be able to keep up with them at college when the show returns for another season on September 14.Desperate Housewives kept a steady flow of suspense, action, and intrigue on Wisteria Lane. The housewives will be back on September 27.Grey’s Anatomy continued to give fans more medical emergencies and complicated relationships in the past season. It will return on September 24.Prison Break disappointed its many fans when the series ended on May 15. It was followed by a full-length movie, The Final Break, on May 24.Lots of new seriesDon’t worry. Prison Break may be over, but there are plenty of new dramas planned for the coming season. For fans who can’t get enough of Grey’s Anatomy, there’s Trauma, about emergency medical technicians trying to save lives before they get to the emergency room. Mercy  will follow busy nurses trying to juggle their professional and romantic lives.Heroes fans may be happy to hear about new sci-fi shows like Day One, about a group of survivors who come together after an apocalyptic disaster, or Flash Forward, where everyone on Earth blacks out for two minutes. Those who aren’t killed get scary glimpses of the future. Lost’s  Elizabeth Mitchell (Juliet) stars in the new series V, about aliens who might be evil.Want to explore the supernatural? The Vampire Diaries will delight Twilight fans, as two gorgeous vampires fight for the love of a high school girl. Eastwick might be something like Desperate Housewives…if the wives were witches.And then there’s Past Life, a mystery show based on the idea of reincarnation. Detectives solve problems in their clients’ current lives by uncovering tragedies from their past lives.
