A warm destination for winter holidays
From a sleepy backwater to a modern tourist destination, Hainan Island, off the south coast of China, has attracted large numbers of followers from both home and abroad every year. With its tropical climate, sandy beach and clear water, people from colder parts of China have long flocked to the island for relaxing holidays. Now the noted resort is welcoming the holiday season with tropical zeal.Hainan province started its fourteenth annual carnival on Dec 29 with various activities for tourists from across the world. Members of the “Big Sanya Tourism Circle” tourism alliance recently developed and issued 3 new southern Hainan tourism routes that start from Sanya, in a bid to better promote the tourism resources of the seven cities and counties in Southern Hainan at the 14th Hainan Carnival. The 3 tour routes include the sunset & blessing tour from Sanya to Ledong and Dongfang, the rainforest & health care tour from Sanya to Wuzhishan and Baoting, and the island & food tour from Sanya to Lingshui and Wanning.Hainan’s main draw is the city of Sanya, which boasts many five-star hotels along its white-sand beaches. Its turquoise waters and swaying palm trees make for an idyllic beach retreat. But there is more to the island than sun and sand. 21st Century picked out a few uncrowded but beautiful and unique places where you can avoid the chilliness in cold days during winter holidays.Jianfengling National Forest ParkLocated in the southwest of Hainan Island, Jianfengling National Forest Park is 90 kilometers away from Sanya City. It’s the largest and best-preserved tropical original forest in China and known as the Amazon Rainforest of China. The tour to Jianfengling is highlighted by the Mingfenggu Valley section, the most typical original tropical highland rainforest. The large collection of precious plants is an attraction, which includes large quantities of living fossil ferns. The whole scenic area is connected with a wooden track, and illustrated by detailed descriptions of precious tree species, which enables tourists to learn while enlightening their spirits. It’s an ideal place to give your lungs a vocation.Datian National Nature ReserveDatian National Nature Reserve is located in Dongfang County, west of Hainan province. Around 1000 Hainan Eld’s Deer live there. Hainan Eld’s Deer is listed among the Grade I animals by China government for its values in scientific and medical researches. It is a graceful type of deer, swift and elegant, and also good at jumping. They have very sensitive vision, smell and hearing abilities. The native Eld’s deer are distinctive, with two lines of white dots running parallel to a dark brown strip on its back. They like to walk around during sunrise or sunset which is also a perfect time for visitors to watch them. There is touching love folklore about the Eld’s deer. Long time ago, a young ethnic hunter ran after a deer. The deer found no way to go except the sea under a cliff, and the hunter bent his bow and got ready to shoot. Suddenly the deer turned her head back and changed into a beautiful girl. Soon, the hunter and the fairy girl fell in love.Yalong BayYalong Bay Tropical Paradise Forest Park is the filming site of Director Feng Xiaogang’s Movie – “If You Are the One II”, where you would enjoy the nature of beauty. Yalong Bay is situated in the southernmost part of Hainan Province, 25 kilometers away from Sanya and boasts the five essential elements of modern tourism: sea, sands, sunshine, lush green plants and fresh air. The park is densely forested with tropical and sub-tropical vegetation. Footpaths and raised walkways wind through the trees. When Shu Qi, the female lead in the 2010 blockbuster “ If You Are the One II”, walks across a 168-meter rope ridge to the thatched cottage she has made home, it just looks so incredibly romantic. Attached to the park is a luxury hotel, the Bird’s Nest Resort, which is built on top of the thick forest canopy. These houses are close to each other but still manage to keep their privacy.
