Series is over, but Gossip Girl lives on
After six seasons, more than 120 episodes and dozens of upscale Manhattan shindigs, we finally said goodbye to Gossip Girl last December with a two-hour finale filled with shocking revelations, life-changing moments and a farewell that might have come a little too late.Gossip Girl, a teen soap based on a popular book series for young adults, in some ways was the first television show about the Internet. Or at least it was the first show that used the Internet in a crucial, central way.Gossip Girl was an anonymous (until the finale) person who devoted her (or at least we thought so) time to chronicling the lives of the wealthy youths of Upper East Side in New York.While most storylines in the show revolved around other things, there was always the narration to remind us that all this drama was happening within the framework of a little blog. It wasn’t revolutionary, but in a strange way Gossip Girl did leave a little mark on this big, broad culture of ours.Gossip Girl unmaskedOne of the series’ biggest questions–who is the mysterious, omnipresent blogger calling herself (or himself as it turns out) Gossip Girl–was finally answered.To a degree, Dan Humphrey being unmasked as the blogger makes sense. He explained that he became Gossip Girl in order to shape the Upper East Side world that he wanted to get into. A young man in Brooklyn can only manipulate his way into uptown society, he can’t get there on merit alone.So, what, if anything, does the end of Gossip Girl mean? Well, it means that teenagers have gotten older, that kids who started watching the show in junior high are now sophomores in college, that kids who started watching it later in high school are now drifting around the professional world somewhere–it means that time has passed.“That’s part of what you do when you recap a TV show; you try to crunch it down into context, place it on its appropriate shelf,” Richard Lawson, an editor for The Atlantic Wire, wrote in a recent article. “There’s a reverence for the show but there’s also an antagonism, a sense of wanting to conquer a thing.”Sign of somethingWe all had a nice cultural moment with Gossip Girl when it first started. It said something to us about a luxury brand of New York privilege that most of us will never know. It then became a fable, an alternate universe. It lied to us about lots of things–not just economics or New York social behavior, but also about matters of the heart (most television shows do that).“But because it was about kids, and for kids, Gossip Girl briefly stood out in some people’s eyes as a sign of something,” Jeff Jensen, TV critic for Entertainment Weeky, wrote. “Much like the similarly titled Girls does now.”A sign or not, Gossip Girl must have gotten something right. Although Dan declares in the final episode that Gossip Girl is dead, it’s clear that the entity will never die: “You may be rid of Dan Humphrey, but you’ll never be rid of me. There’s always someone on the outside… Who am I now? That’s one secret I’ll never tell.”There’s a part of us that wishes Gossip Girl would live on in an alternate universe, just to see it all play out.It’s been a rocky six seasons, but the series finale reminded viewers of what Gossip Girl ultimately is and should be remembered as: a soapy, cheeky, guilty pleasure.
