Modest megastar
Introverted, shy, reserved. These are hardly words one would normally associate with a comedian, but Yue Yunpeng, who possesses all these traits offstage, has become one of China’s favorite *crosstalk superstars.Among the many crosstalk performers who are also currently active in theater and TV shows, Yue’s prevalence comes second only to his master, Guo Degang. Not only a star of the traditional Chinese comedic performance scene, 31-year-old Yue has expanded his horizons to include movies. In the romantic drama I Belonged to You (《从你的全世界路过》) which was released on Sept 29, he plays a silly yet loveable fool.Like many of his peers, Yue first started to learn crosstalk as a survival skill. But unlike most other *apprentices, *buttering up the master wasn’t one of his strong points. Even worse, he found himself judged by peers as not being cut out for the art, even ending up on the *verge of being thrown out of the comedy club Deyun Society on three separate occasions.Modern crosstalk is made up of four essential skills – speaking, imitating, teasing and singing. Yue, a man of few words, later discovered his vocal chords were best suited to singing and imitating– his self-arranged song Five Rings (《五环之歌》) has become a national hit.Yue has also gradually formed his own style of speaking – mean, but in a funny way. He reorganizes some classic crosstalk works and adds his own distinctive Henan *dialect to them. If audience members heckle crosstalkers during a show, while Guo Degang would retaliate in a witty way, Yue goes for a more direct approach, normally shouting: “Get out!” His *straightforward language, alongside his *exaggerated facial expressions – especially his popped-out but small eyes – create *hilarious comedic effects.An article by Blog Weekly calls Yue “the Forrest Gump of the crosstalk world”, but while crosstalk may not have come naturally to him at first, his *persistence and sincerity have led to his success.As a down-to-earth figure, Yue attracts fans not only with his talent, but more importantly, his *authenticity. He even admits to Marie Claire magazine that he take offers of TV reality shows and films just to make more money. Wang Yuqin（←？查过了，说这个人叫王俣钦）, Yue’s agent, also tells Blog Weekly that Yue doesn’t like it when someone stands behind him to take a picture and then *ridicules his big face.He doesn’t see himself as a pin-up celebrity. He’s not a *flatterer. He responds to annoying things just as we non-famous people do. But just like us, he’s not perfect, except at crosstalking, that is.
