Han’s debut off to head start
I watched Han Han’s directorial debut, The Continent, and the latest installment of Guo Jingming’s Tiny Times series, around the same time. The reason is obvious. Both of them are best-selling authors who have turned into film directors.While I found Guo’s Tiny Times 3 amusing, with The Continent, which was released a week later, I went to the cinema thinking: “Well, this may be something I’ve been waiting for — a more serious film.” No offense to Guo and his Tiny Times. Maybe I’m just a bigger fan of Han, believing that the talented writer, racecar driver and opinion leader is capable of making something special.Generally, The Continent is about three young men from an island off east China who go on a road trip to the western regions and, along the way, fulfill some of their personal goals. Unsurprisingly, it’s about youth, dreams and farewells.The subject matter is a fitting but safe choice by Han, and his signature literary style and humor is present throughout the 100 minutes. Of course, working on a 50-million-yuan film project is so much more complicated than writing a novel. For example, how do you transfer the script to a limited number of frames; or how do you convey Han’s vision through the actors’ performances?From this perspective, Han has done a wonderful job setting the tone. For a first-time director, the completeness of storytelling and the coherence between the pictures and sound are very skilled and sophisticated.So, what is Han’s message here? There’s no straightforward preaching or political implications anywhere to be found in The Continent. This isn’t what I expected of Han, who gained fame at a young age and received as much criticism as accolades along the way.That’s kind of a relief, though, because otherwise, he would be one of those filmmakers who take their social responsibility in a literal and shallow way. It’s also a sign of matureness for the 32-year-old Han, who’s no longer a cynic that always cries out for justice.Instead, Han talks about something more authentic: one’s self-identification, and the distance between one’s dreams and the reality.Either you’re someone with lofty ambitions and an adventurous spirit, or a commonplace person who sometimes worries that you will be ordinary forever. In this film, everyone can find some peace, better yet, a little courage.
