Carrie Fisher dies at 60
Carrie Fisher, a daughter of Hollywood royalty who gained pop-culture fame as Princess Leia in the original "Star Wars" and turned her struggles with addiction and mental illness into wickedly funny books, a hit film and a one-woman stage show, died on Dec. 27 after falling ill aboard a flight . She was 60.Fisher made her feature film debut opposite Warren Beatty in the 1975 hit "Shampoo." She also appeared in "Austin Powers," ’’The Blues Brothers," ’’Charlie’s Angels," ’’Hannah and Her Sisters," ’’Scream 3" and "When Harry Met Sally ..."But Fisher is best remembered as the headstrong Princess Leia in the original "Star Wars" in 1977, her hair styled in futuristic braided buns. She uttered the immortal phrase "Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi, you’re my only hope."She reprised the role in Episode VII of the series, "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" in 2015, and her digitally rendered image appears in the newest installment, "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story."Fisher long battled drug addiction and mental illness. She said she smoked pot at 13, used LSD by 21 and was diagnosed as bipolar at 24. She was treated with electroshock therapy and medication.In 1987, her thinly veiled autobiography "Postcards From the Edge" became a best-seller. It was adapted into a 1990 movie starring Shirley MacLaine and Meryl Streep.More books followed: "Delusions of Grandma," ’’Surrender the Pink," ’’The Best Awful," ’’Shockaholic" and this year’s autobiography, "The Princess Diarist," in which she revealed that she and Ford had an affair on the "Star Wars" set.Fisher’s one-woman show, "Wishful Drinking," which she had performed across the country since 2006, was turned into a book, made its way to Broadway in 2009 and was filmed for HBO in 2010.Little was off-limits in the show. She discussed the scandal that engulfed her superstar parents (Fisher ran off with Elizabeth Taylor); her brief marriage to singer Paul Simon; the time the father of her daughter left her for a man; and the day she woke up next to the dead body of a platonic friend who had overdosed in her bed."I’m a product of Hollywood inbreeding. When two celebrities mate, something like me is the result," she said in the show. At another point, she cracked: "I don’t have a problem with drugs so much as I have a problem with sobriety."In a 2009 interview with The Associated Press, Fisher wasn’t coy about revealing details about her life. She hoped to remove the stigma from mental illness."People relate to aspects of my stories and that’s nice for me because then I’m not all alone with it," she said. "Also, I do believe you’re only as sick as your secrets. If that’s true, I’m just really healthy."
