On the sunny side
Over the past few years, a sense of gloom has lingered over the British pop-rock group Coldplay. Their recent music has been heartbreaking and soulful – a dramatic departure from their earlier, spunkier days.But that’s all about to change. Coldplay is ready to return to its roots.A Head Full of Dreams, Coldplay’s seventh studio album, came out on Dec 4, and it might be their most upbeat production ever. Rolling Stone magazine gave the album four stars out of five and called it “an eagle’s-wings whoosh of soaring melodies, happy dance beats and [lead singer Chris Martin] at his most wide-eyed”.The album begins with a fast-paced title track that epitomizes Coldplay’s newfound happiness and excitement. It’s an uplifting journey for the listeners.“It’s about love and acceptance and embracing what happens to you,” Martin, 38, said to Rolling Stone.It was only a year and a half ago that the band released its darkest album, Ghost Stories. That 2014 release was named Top Rock Album at the Billboard Music Awards, but it alienated some fans with its mournful tone.Critics speculate that the album was a mirror for Martin’s personal struggles. In March 2014, Martin announced that his separation from American actress Gwyneth Paltrow. The couple had more than 10 years of marriage and two children.While Ghost Stories reflects Martin’s melancholy, A Head Full of Dreams symbolizes his recovery. In one track, Hymn for the Weekend, he partners with Beyonce to deliver an anthem to love – and the delights of hard partying.In a surprise twist, Martin features Paltrow’s singing in one of the new tracks, Everglow. It’s astonishing to hear the chemistry in their voices, even after the pair’s “conscious uncoupling”. Everglow is a deeply personal song about finding the good in what has happened. “They say people come. They say people go,” Martin sings.We might have to let Coldplay go sometime in near future. For the last 19 years, the band has inspired listeners with their soulful and intelligent music, selling 80 million albums worldwide. But Martin has hinted to Consequence of Sound that Dreams could be Coldplay’s last album. If so, they’re certainly going out on a sustained note of grace.
