Top 8 strangest anti-terrorism patents
Technology has always played a big role in fighting terrorism. Some inventions are truly useful and will undoubtedly save lives, whereas others are so bizarre that one wonders how in the world they got patented. This list is about the latter: Behold the Top 8 Strangest Anti-Terrorism Patents!1. Anti-Terrorist Truck Problem: Terrorists can pop up at any time, leaving local authorities totally defenseless against their raging attacks.Solution: When terrorists walk past this non-descript truck parked quietly on the street, its roof pops out to reveal a machine gun turret! If that doesn’t strike fear into the heart of Jihadis, well ... then we can still mow ’em down!Bonus: Also great for battling zombies.2.Biohazard Suit with Built-In ToiletProblem: You got to wear a biohazard suit to protect against biological or chemical weapons ... but as soon as you put it on, you really gotta go!Solution: A biohazard suit with a built-in toilet! Just squat a little bit and go.Potential Complications: How do you wipe?3. Railroad Missile SystemProblem: Terrorists may attack a missile silo, a stationary target if there ever is one.Solution: Make it mobile. Here’s a patent for a railroad missile garrison system that launches ICBMs from rail cars of a train.Bonus: Makes a great movie plot!4. Doggie EarphoneProblem: It’s well known that Al Qaeda terrorists hate dogs, but how do you tell the animals to get to these dirty SOBs if they can’t hear you? (You being a far away, of course, preferably in the safety and comfort of a bunker.)Solution: a custom-fitting earpiece for dogs so they can receive verbal instructions remotely.Bonus: The method specifically said four-legged non-human animal, so I’m thinking this will work with goats. Attack goats.5. Airplane Trap Doorroblem: Terrorists want to hijack a plane by trying to break down the cockpit door.Solution: After hardening the cockpit door, airlines should add the next logical step: airplane trap door that springs open to entrap terrorists below deck.Improvement Suggestion: Add an alligator pit to the trap door ... or better yet, some snakes on the pit!6. Passenger Control System During FlightProblem: A terrorist is onboard, and you want to disable him without harming the other passengers.Solution: Make all passengers wear armbands that monitors their body for signs of falsehood and evil. And did I mention there’s a syringe filled with a strong tranquilizer connected to the thing? One "anomalous emotional condition," then off to dreamland they go!Bonus: Works for unruly kids.7. Explosion Containment NetProblem: Suicide bombers may detonate their bomb and kill a lot of people.Solution: It may look like an umbrella, but that’s actually a kevlar net fired from a special gun to encapsulate and contain a bomb’s blast. The net also contains a tube for dispensing fire suppressant agent.Bonus: Great for fishing or tackling.8. Mobile CrematoriumProblem: When all effort to prevent a large scale act of terrorism failed and the body count of victims is high, then something is needed to get rid of the bodies... Solution: A mobile crematorium - basically a combustion chamber on wheels.Bonus: Probably makes a mean BBQ! Also works to get rid of dead zombies.
