On her own terms
Iggy Azalea doesn’t look like a typical rapper. On May 17, she attended the 2015 Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas, US, with pink hair and a pastel blue top. She looked like a model, but won big as a rapper.The 24-year-old Australian beat out big names like Nicki Minaj and Drake to win the award for Top Rap Artist. She also brought home two other trophies, including Top Streaming Artist.It’s not sudden recognition. Last year her hit “Fancy”, featuring Charli XCX, topped the Billboard Hot 100 chart for seven consecutive weeks, allowing her to make history as the female rapper with the longest run. The song was also named Billboard’s Song of the Summer in 2014. In November, she won favorite rap/hip-hop artist at the American Music Awards.It’s a feat in many people’s eyes, but Azalea knew what she wanted from the beginning.At 15 she dropped out of high school because she was only interested in art class. She worked as a house cleaner to save money for her dream the following year. Before her 16th birthday, Azalea left her home, a tiny town in Australia, for the US, determined to become a rapper. Moving from Miami to Houston to Atlanta, she started rapping in the Southern-style accent of her surroundings and released a single titled “Ignorant Art” in 2011. From then on, she has never looked back.However, her style has caused lots of controversy. She might be one of the most polarizing artists in showbiz.She raps with a southern American accent, even though she speaks with an Australian one. Many criticize her style as an insensitive appropriation of black culture, according to Billboard.Her supporters are just as vocal. Pioneering female American rapper MC Lyte defended Azalea in an interview with New York radio station Hot 97, saying she should not be judged because of where she’s from. “Hip hop is universal, no color lines,” MC Lyte said.Azalea herself is proud of her music. “I really want to be focused on what I’m doing,” she said in an interview with a local CBS affiliate. “That’s really dangerous when you’re trying to figure out ways to entertain people and make them happy... I don’t want to be a part of that.”
