Past events get reviewed
The second season of Aaron Sorkin’s HBO series The Newsroom takes place roughly two years in the past, when the fictional ACN News Night team strives to report the news as it happens. By reenacting headline-making events, the series comments both on those happenings and the way journalists handled them.So it’s worth asking: How does The Newsroom’s coverage of events fit in with the way these events really unfolded in the media? Here, we pick a few examples from the series and compare them to the real-life media coverage of the events they portray.They Should’ve taken it seriouslyThe Newsroom: At a Sept 19 editorial meeting, staffers laugh off Neal Sampat’s pitch on the emergence of a leaderless resistance movement known as Occupy Wall Street. On Sept 21, Sampat is arrested at an Occupy Wall Street rally in Zuccotti Park in New York.The real-life news: On Sept 19, 2011, much of the media perhaps was laughing at the notion of Occupy Wall Street being newsworthy. US political commentator Keith Olbermann, though, was a step ahead.On that night’s Countdown With Keith Olbermann, he asked why major American news outlets had ignored the protests in Zuccotti Park. “If this [were] a Tea Party rally in front of Wall Street about Ben Bernanke (chairman of the Federal Reserve, the central bank of the US) putting stimulus funds into it, that [would be] the lead story on every network newscast.”“It’s just kind of uncool for journalists to take these people who want to change the world seriously,” said Will Bunch of the Philadelphia Daily News, a guest on Olbermann’s show.On Sept 21, however, camera-phone footage of Occupy arrests surfaced on YouTube. Within a few days, other news outlets had also begun covering Occupy Wall Street.Not taking action has consequences, tooThe Newsroom: On Sept 23, 2011, at the GOP presidential debate, all nine Republican presidential candidates remain silent while audience members boo a gay US soldier’s question for presidential candidate Rick Santorum about policies regarding homosexuality in the military. ACN News Night anchor Will McAvoy delivers a report with some punishing extra commentary.The real-life news: When US soldier Stephen Hill was booed at the Republican presidential debate, Santorum didn’t acknowledge the audience’s negative response. Several prominent media figures were, like Mc Avoy, shocked, indignant and disappointed.MSNBC’s Chris Matthews pointed out — as News Night’s senior producer Jim Harper does in the episode — that this gaffe was, above all, a missed opportunity.“Is there any natural leader in the Republican party, or is it mob rule? [A candidate could say,] ‘Now, let’s think that through again. This guy is fighting for our country,’” Matthews said. “‘You may not approve, if you have an attitude, about his orientation or his political ideologies. But let’s have a hand for everybody in our military.’ That would be a chilling moment.”Several Republican leaders decried both the booing and the lack of response from the primary candidates — even debate participants Santorum, who said he couldn’t hear the boos from the stage, and Gary Johnson, who said he could hear the boos and regretted not saying anything.
