Great year for K-pop
When it comes to the term “Korean Wave”, we’re not just talking about South Korean romantic TV series. The impact of the country’s music industry, known as K-pop, is also expanding.As one of the most prominent entertainment industries in the world, South Korea’s singers not only enjoy massive popularity in their own country, but also around the world. The following artists have been successful in the past year and are sure to shine even more in 2014.BoAThe 27-year-old singer, whose full name is Kwon Boa（权宝儿）, deserves to be named “Queen of K-pop” for many reasons, including her singing talent, beauty, fame, and her dedication to the music world.Debuted at the young age of 13, BoA has managed to achieve great success in South Korea, Japan, China and the US. According to Oricon, a provider of music industry statistics in Japan, BoA holds the record as the only foreign artist who has sold more than 1 million albums in Japan.Over the past two years, BoA has refocused her career in K-pop. In July 2012, she released Only One, her first Korean album in two years. And from January to April 2013, she went on her first tour of South Korea.G-DragonThe frontman of popular South Korean group Big Bang is many things: singer, songwriter, dancer and, of course, fashion icon. For the 25-year-old (birth name Kwon Ji-yong) 2013 was certainly an unforgettable year. It proved he is currently one of the hottest artists in the K-Pop scene.In September, G-Dragon released his solo album Coup d’Etat, which debuted at No 182 on the US’ Billboard 200 chart. In November, he won Artist of the Year at the 15th Mnet Asian Music Awards, one of the major K-pop music award ceremonies. He is the first solo artist to have won the title.His collaborations with big international artists have helped his growing global influence. For example, in the album Coup d’Etat, he worked with Sky Ferreira and Missy Elliott. He has also recorded a yet unreleased song with Justin Bieber.ExoThe boy band came back onto many people’s radars in 2013, after releasing their first studio album XOXO in June. Originally debuted as two separate groups, Exo-K and Exo-M (the former sings in Korean and the latter in Chinese), the group joined forces to promote the album.At the 2013 Melon Music Awards, South Korea’s equivalent of the Grammy Awards, Exo won Song of the Year and Netizen Popularity Award for hit single Growl. They were also included in the Top 10 Artists awards, alongside G-Dragon and others.HyorinThe year 2013 wasn’t nearly as good for the girl group Sistar as 2012, but its leader, 23-year-old Hyorin (birth name Kim Hyo-jung), has enjoyed a soaring solo career in the last few months.In November, Hyorin made her debut as a solo artist with a tepid first album, Love & Hate. But her breakthrough came in January, when she released Goodbye, a soundtrack single for the popular drama Man From the Stars. With three weeks on top of the Billboard’ K-Pop chart, the song is the longest-running No 1 on the chart in 2014 so far.2NE1Many South Korean groups rose up in 2013, but 2NE1, known as the Korean version of the Spice Girls, managed to make its own unique mark.Debuted in 2009, the four-member girl group has sold 27 million digital downloads to date, according to Forbes magazine, which noted that they’re now “bigger than Psy” on the international scene.
