Singing competitions diversify new music
A video of several renowned singers performing the same song, A-mei’s Listen to the Sea, appeared on Weibo’s hot post rankings soon after South Korean artist The One delivered his version on the stage at Hunan TV’s I’m a Singer on March 6.Eighteen years after its initial release, Listen to the Sea still touched listeners’ hearts. But the question is what’s the latest song you can think of that reaches the same heights as Listen to the Sea － both commercially and critically?An undeniable fact is we are indeed lacking good songs.Now we can thank Sing My Song for offering music fans more choices to add to their playlists.Since Super Girl started the craze in 2005, over 10 different singing competitions have aired in the time since. Among them is The Voice of China, which aims to find the singer with the strongest vocal abilities. Both powerhouse singers and professionally-trained vocalists dominate the show. I’m a Singer provides a platform for veterans to rediscover their passion for music and challenge themselves. Super Girl and Super Boy are intended to locate showbiz’s next super idol. The winners don’t need to be the best singer but they must have a distinct personality. Even those indifferent toward this form of entertainment know Li Yunchun, the 2005 Super Girl champion, is a short-haired “tough girl”, though they may be unable to name a single one of her songs.Sing My Song is unique because it’s the only singing talent show that requires every contestant to come up with their own original compositions rather than covering other artists’ songs. (Most competitors are both the lyricists and composers for their songs, and some write music for classic poems or essays.) The five superstar judges and producers (four in the first season) narrow down their search to finding the best songs and songwriters in China. In Sing My Song, the ability to be a strong composer outweighs singing ability.According to the Hollywood Reporter, the UK’s ITV has created a British version of Sing My Song, marking the first time a Chinese format talent show has been exported abroad.However successful Sing My Song has proven itself to be, it still faces the same problem all singing talent shows share: For most contestants, their starting point at the show is also their career’s peak. We have to hope that some of these rookies will be able to hold on to their stardom and add something new to Chinese music.
