Actor sparks ‘Bond’ rumors
With his incredible versatility, Tom Hiddleston, 35, has become one of contemporary cinema’s great stars. His diverse resume of roles – which include the lovable supervillain Loki in the Thor and Avengers series – has earned him “many enthusiastic fans”, Time Out magazine noted.Now the British actor may be angling for an even higher profile among Hollywood’s elite. His latest role as a soldier-turned-spy in the BBC TV series The Night Manager, which began to air on Feb 21, fueled speculation that he could be tapped as the next James Bond. Viewers have even gone so far as to say that it felt like an audition for Hiddleston to play the British secret agent.“Tom Hiddleston is slick and handsome,” the Mediamass website noted. “These are certainly the characteristics needed to play James Bond.”The actor addressed the rumors himself, saying he was drawn to the 007 movies. “I’m a huge fan of the series. I simply love the whole thing,” he told The Guardian newspaper. “If it ever came knocking, it would be a great opportunity.”Though he may be the toast of Hollywood at the moment, Hiddleston spends much of his time focusing on work off-screen. The actor often performs in classical theater in the UK, making notable appearances in the plays of William Shakespeare. This might be related to his educational background, as The Guardian noted. He studied the classics at the University of Cambridge. “I spent my entire spare time doing Shakespeare’s plays, and my love for him got bigger and bigger,” Hiddleston said.After graduating from Cambridge with first-class honors, he went on to study at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA). From there, Hiddleston started picking up acting jobs.His breakthrough came in the comic book blockbuster, Thor. The chance to play a supervillain, Hiddleston said, was like a light going on in his life. “We all give ourselves limits. We think, ‘There’s the ceiling, and that’s as far as I can go.’ Then something happens and it changes everything,” he told The Guardian.It is probably the idea of escaping “labels” that inspires Hiddleston most. “The labels that are so easy to put on me – like Cambridge graduate or RADA graduate – are, in a way, the least interesting things about me. I’ve had to do a lot of work getting those off,” he said.
