A link among strangers
Everything the Wachowskis create is inevitably compared to “The Matrix” (1999), their cyberpunk masterwork. “The Matrix” set the bar high for what the directing duo is capable of, and ever since their output has drifted further and further beneath that mark. So it’s with great relief that they’ve now turned their attention to television. The new sci-fi drama series “Sense8” proves to be a pasture a bit more fertile for the two.Sense8 turns eight people from across the globe into telepaths who can communicate with one another remotely through feelings, words, and thoughts. Confused and disoriented by their mysterious abilities, each character sets out to uncover the origin of their powers while dodging the deadly villain trying to capture them.The mechanism for weaving the story together, typically just one character suddenly switching places with another in a scene, takes some getting used to. But once you can feel out the show’s seams, most of the confusion falls away. What you’re left with are characters who might matter more to you than the link between them.Each “sensate” has a charm of their own, lives of their own and troubles of their own. They aren’t the most complete-feeling characters, and the show might be more enjoyable without one or two, but in a pinch they’ll keep you entertained. One sensate, however, stands firmly above the rest. Nomi, a transgender woman, feels like she actually exists in the real world. Expect to sometimes find yourself wondering about her while other cast members are getting screen time.The Wachowskis’ post-Matrix work demonstrates they’re not the best at gluing things together with story alone. Luckily, they know how to use a camera. There are moments in Sense8 that are so well shot you’ll remember why executives keep writing checks for these two to experiment. When the story starts to languish, just focus on what you see. You’ll feel better soon enough.So Sense8 isn’t perfect. It’s good at being human, better at looking pretty, and not the best at achieving its ambitious goals. Still, it all evens out into a series you should commit a few hours to before writing off.
