Sights and sounds of Brazil
Brazil, the biggest country in South America, has drawn the whole world’s attention, as it will host the 2014 World Cup in less than a month.The country certainly has a long tradition of soccer and has won the World Cup five times. But except for watching and playing soccer, Brazil’s beautiful landscape, various cultural events and delicious food also make it a great traveling destination.Read on to learn more about this *vibrant country.Visit world wondersChrist the RedeemerAs one of the New Seven Wonders and an icon of Brazil, Christ the Redeemer is the famous statue of Jesus Christ in Rio de Janeiro, also one of the largest *art deco-statues in the world. Located at the top of the 700-meter Corcovado Mountain, it offers a sweeping *panorama of Guanabara Bay. It stands 98 feet (30 meters) tall, not including its 26-foot (8-meter) *pedestal, and its arms stretch to a width of 92 feet (28 meters).Iguazu FallsSituated on the border of Brazil and Argentina, Iguazu Falls is one of the great natural wonders of the world. They feature on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Among its system of 275 waterfalls along the Iguazu River, the Devil’s Throat is the most magnificent one. It’s a U-shaped waterfall with a height of 269 feet (82 meters).Amazon RiverAt approximately 6,400 km, the Amazon River is the second longest river and the largest river by volume in the world. With 3,000 recognized species of fish, it is surrounded by half of the planet’s remaining rainforests. Tourists can boat *upriver into the damp and enjoy the unique and powerful *ambience of the wild.Join cultural spectaclesCarnivalAs Brazil’s best-known festival, Carnival is celebrated 46 days before the Easter festival and takes place over a period of about five days.Carnival is *derived from the word carnelevare, literally meaning “removal of meat”. Brazil’s carnival began during the European dominated era when followers of the Roman Catholic Church would *indulge in a last day of alcohol, dance, fun and sex just before the start of Lent, a period of *abstinence from alcohol and other sins. Back then, people would exchange clothes and indulge in wild dancing.Nowadays, the most famous carnival is that held in Rio de Janeiro, where thousands of people, wearing masks and colorful costumes, dance samba to the sound of drums and music.Passion playsThis festival takes place annually in the week before Easter and involves different performances. Brazil’s largest passion play is held in Nova Jerusalem, involving more than 500 actors. With a huge theater taking up an area close to that of 12 football fields, visitors can enjoy the wonderful play or just experience the street fair outside.Bumba-Meu-BoiRoughly translated as “hit my bull”, Bumba-Meu-Boi, mainly held in June, is a festival with traditional roots. Locals create a bull from a wire frame covered in *papier-mache and use it in a folk dance. It tells the story of a bull that was killed and then brought back to life by traditional healers and music. One of the largest Bumba-Meu-Boi is held in Sao Luis.Taste local specialitiesFeijoadaConsidered to be the national dish, feijoada is a black bean *stew with various types of beef and sausage. It originated from the time of colonization when the Portuguese brought their stew of black beans to Brazil. Its taste is strong, moderately salty but not spicy.AcarajeMade from black-eyed peas that are rolled into balls and then fried, acaraje is a popular street food and beach snack in Brazil. It is typically stuffed with shrimp, peanuts and other *ingredients.BrigadeiroProbably the national dessert of Brazil, brigadeiro look like balls of chocolate similar to *truffles. They are named after a *brigadier that helped stop a communist *coup in Rio. The thick mix of *condensed milk, butter and chocolate powder is rolled into small balls and cooked. Then they are covered in chocolate sprinkles and taste delicious.
