Lonely voice of last love
Adele, whose 2011 album 21 recently reached 30 million in worldwide sales, is still taking her time to make new music. While her fans are anxiously waiting, a “male version Adele” is quickly rising to stardom in the UK, singing his soul out and touching listeners’ hearts, just like Adele.Sam Smith, winner of the 2014 BRIT Critics’ Choice Award and the BBC’s Sound of 2014, grabbed the spotlight even before his debut album In the Lonely Hour was released in June. At the age of 22, he seems far beyond his years, with a charm that stems from years of professional training.Born in the rural county of Cambridgeshire, England, Smith was put in formal vocal training at the age of 8 after his parents heard him singing along to Whitney Houston’s My Love Is Your Love one morning on the drive to school. Thereafter, much of his childhood and adolescence was spent in theater rehearsals.Smith moved to London at the age of 18 and became a pub singer. In October 2012, he was featured on British house duo Disclosure’s breakthrough single Latch, which also became Smith’s breakthrough. Not only did Smith rise to fame along with the song, it also helped him find something he hadn’t yet explored musically: contrast. His voice has a traditional sound and lends itself well to old standards. But pairing up with Disclosure added a contemporary edge to his voice. Suddenly, he was relevant.Speaking of Smith’s voice — his biggest selling point — it is deep, rich, soulful, and surprisingly mature for his young age. Thanks to that, with only one album, Smith has successfully produced the same brand of soul music with which Adele exploded onto the pop scene.However, Smith sounds even rawer. On In the Lonely Hour, Smith’s vocals are mostly out in front of the background music, which has a direct impact on listeners. He may sing about loneliness, but what you get is the painful, suffocating feeling fostered by unrequited love.If Adele’s 21 was about a busted relationship, then Smith’s In the Lonely Hour deals with a love that never happened at all. And his vocal approach perfectly suits that theme.
