A love affair through time
WERE time travel possible, we would know it already, since, according to Stephen Hawking, "they would already be here telling us about it". Others speculate that "they" have already been here. They visit quite frequently with their flying saucers and invasive experiments. The typical alien - big blank eyes, no hair, green - is a higher form of human being from the future.British author HG Wells introduced a version of this in his 1895 novel The Time Machine, where his character uses a machine to travel through time. Time travel remains as compelling as it is unknowable. All in all, it’s a great theme for a movie.The Time Traveler’s Wife is a new film based on the bestselling novel by US author Audrey Niffenegger. It follows the life of Henry DeTamble (Eric Bana), a reluctant time traveler whose genetic condition means he gets whipped through time. He can’t control this and turns up naked at seemingly random places. One place he returns to repeatedly is a meadow. Here he meets a little girl, Clare Abshire (Rachel McAdams), who gets him some clothes. Henry (sometimes older sometimes younger) visits often and, inevitably, she falls in love with him. When she is 20, she meets a 28-year-old "real-time" Henry. They fall in love, and Henry keeps going backwards and forwards as the drama develops.According to Ronald Mallett, a professor at the University of Connecticut and author of The Time Traveler, time travel as a genetic condition is "highly improbable". In reality time travel uses physics (Einstein’s theory of relativity) not biology. Yet films never grow tired of playing with the idea. Back to the Future, The Lake House, and 17 Again are all about the time-space continuum. "I think people are interested in time travel because it touches on some of our most fundamental needs and desires," says Mallett. "I believe that we’d all like to know the future or to change something in our past." Often these films make giant leaps when it comes to factual accuracy - think of the mail box in The Lake House which transports letters through time. And what about the "grandfather paradox"? What would happen if a time traveler killed his grandfather as a child, resulting in his father not being born and, in turn, his not being born. How does he kill his grandfather?The Time Traveler’s Wife doesn’t address these questions. It is less about time travel and more about the idea of "the One". It uses time travel as a metaphor for fate, with Henry and Clare destined to be together. When Henry asks Clare to marry him, she first blurts out "No", then, "Yes, yes! I was just exercising my right to free will." It would have been much more interesting if Clare had said: "Sure, I’ll marry you, but let’s try something radical. Why don’t you go and see if you can kill your grandfather?"
