Speeding to success
When The Fast and the Furious (《速度与激情》) appeared in 2001, it seemed unlikely that the movie would be the opening chapter (开篇) of one of the greatest success stories of contemporary (当代的) movies. However, the action movie became a franchise (系列作品) that has made Universal Pictures billions of dollars. The eighth movie in the series, The Fate of the Furious (2017), sped past a global box office record after it came out on April 14. According to Variety, it “drove off with a $190 million (1.3 billion yuan) opening weekend win at the Chinese box office, breaking lots of records in the country.”So what is so special about the Fast and Furious series?Above all, the movies are part of the most successful genres (类型) of recent years: superhero films. As movie review site Screen Rant put it, Fast and Furious is a “superhero franchise in disguise (伪装)”. Like the Avengers movies, fans love the spectacle (壮观) of teams of heroes, each individual with a special skill, as well as the group dynamic (活力) that develops when they work together.And although the Fast and Furious heroes are only human, the movies attract the same kind of audiences as Marvel’s superhero stories.Yet the main difference that sets the Fast and Furious series apart is the diversity (多元) of its cast (演员). The franchise is about teams of male and female heroes drawn from every major ethnic (种族的) group in the US: Latinos, African-Americans and Asians. In 2011, Boston Globe film critic Wesley Morris wrote: “The most progressive (进步的) force in Hollywood today is the Fast and Furious movies.” He pointed out that the series “features race as a fact of life as opposed (相对的) to a social problem or an occasion (场合) for self-congratulation.”Its multi-cultural cast is much like its audiences. Everyone who goes to see one of these movies sees someone like themselves on screen. According to Entertainment Weekly, the film franchise is doing a much better job of reflecting (反映) its audience than others in Hollywood.As US actor Vin Diesel, one of the series’ stars, told Entertainment Weekly: “It doesn’t matter what nationality you are. As a member of the audience, you realize you can be a member of that ‘family’. That’s the beautiful thing about how the franchise has developed.”“The message is clear,” wrote Entertainment Weekly. “Multiculturalism sells.” Box office receipts (收据) certainly don’t lie.
