Book bargain: do you sell or swap?
Seeing students’ book bargain on a campus sidewalk is nothing new, it’s true. Of course, they could have just handed them on to newcomers. But, it’s a bit more complicated than that and choosing between the two, it turns out, isn’t all that easy.Take Chen Linna, a 21-year-old Renmin University journalism major, for example. She doesn’t want to offer here textbooks to lowerclassmen because she thinks that “kids now are too calculating and rude to deserve a helping hand.”Last semester, a freshmen asked to borrow some reference books for exams. Chen handed over all the books she had just “trying to help a little sister.” When she got the books back they were a mess. To make matters worse, the sweet girl who had politely asked for a favor, suddenly turned cold and aloof. “She didn’t even bother to greet me when we passed each other in the hallway,” says Chen. “How could I make a fool of myself helping someone like that.” “She didn’t even bother to greet me when we passed each other in the hallway,” says Chen. “How could I make a fool of myself helping someone like that.” Now, in order to avoid being tricked, she simply turns all requests down, “to avoid unnecessary annoyances”.So, why didn’t if Chen just sell the books? Well, it seems annoyances are inevitable no matter what. Wan Liqun, 22, a Beijing University of Technology automation major, tried to sell several of his old textbooks last year, his first time. But when he encountered a lowerclassman, he was too nervous to give a price.“I don’t know why I felt so guilty; it was as if I was selling illegal goods,” explains Wan confusedly. His first time in the book business he ended up giving one away for free.Those bold enough to try selling their books to lowerclassmen might run the risk of being misunderstood.Li Xiaoxiao, 19, a chemical applications major at Beijing University of Chemical Technology, was told by an upperclassman at orientation that particular textbooks would be needed for some courses. So Li bought two secondhand books from him. It turned out the two books were only for suggested reading, and had hardly anything to do with exams.“I used to think that guy was warm-hearted,” says Li. “Now I know that he just wanted to get rid of some useless books and make some money.”So, problems still exist in the sell-give conflict, but kind-hearted free offers still remain in effect.  According to a 21st Century Renren.com poll, 87 percent of students would willingly hand over their used textbooks to any student in need.Xie Xiaoxue, 20, a Zhongnan University of Economics and Law economics major even has her reason to do that.Her first year at college, an upperclassman gave her a principle of economics textbook that proved to be the longest lasting textbook in her major.When she turned the pages and saw all the notes and marks left by the earlier students, she felt really proud to be one of them and to add things to the book.“It’s something that connects past and present, which can inspire students who use the book to work harder to leave something to be remembered,” reasons Xie.True to form, she passed the textbook on to a fresh face this year.
