There is still life on Mars it seems
Sometimes, when a musician takes a long break from making music, their older work remains at the top of fans’ playlists, who perhaps keep listening in anticipation of a follow-up. And 31-year-old multiple Grammy Award-winning American singer Bruno Mars is certainly one of these artists. Even during this year’s season of US TV singing talent show The Voice, many *contestants chose to sing Mars’ songs in almost every episode.Finally, after a three year’s hiatus, the star is back in the spotlight again. On Oct 7, the singer dropped the title track from his upcoming album, 24K Magic, as his first single in four years, which was also accompanied by a video. “Excited to announce 24k Magic,” Mars said on his Instagram account. “You can call it my first single, but I call it the invitation to the party.” His upcoming third studio album will be released this year on Nov 18.It’s hard to believe it’s been almost four years since Mars’ last major release. Unorthodox Jukebox (2012), which peaked at No 1 on the Billboard 200 list, included the hits Locked Out of Heaven and Treasure. But after such a long wait, 24K Magic is poised to give the singer’s *trademark Funk a flashy makeover.“The words 24K Magic might not have been familiar, but everything *gleaming inside of it–the glittery disco synths, the cheesed-up vocoder flourishes, the popped-collar call-and-responses – certainly was,” Billboard’s Jason Lipshutz commented. “That doesn’t make Mars’ grand return any less exciting, or 24K Magic any less impressive.”Unlike his mom-and-kid-friendly *singalong music videos–Grenade, Just the Way You Are and The Lazy Song –24K Magic celebrates glitz and *glamour, featuring scenes of jet-setting, gambling and drinking. “I’m a dangerous man with some money in my pocket,” Mars warns in the track’s lyrics.The past four years has also seen the singer graduate from emerging artist to inspired musical *maven. Not only does he write his own lyrics, the star also plays major roles in producing, *collaborating and performing both behind the scenes and in front of the audience.Mars co-wrote Adele’s 25 track All I Ask, and also co-produced the 2014 smash Uptown Funk with English singer Mark Ronson, which later became the second-most enduring chart-topper in history. In the same year, he also co-performed with US singer Beyoncé and UK group Coldplay during the iconic Super Bowl halftime show.This year, despite being busy with his upcoming album, Mars also found time to team up with US Grammy Award-winning musician Skrillex to work on some yet-unreleased music.“We’ve been working on it for about a year, trying different ideas and experimenting,” Skrillex told Billboard. “What we’re doing is so different, awesome and next level and sounds like nothing else that’s happened before.”
