Finding herself
It doesn’t take a genius to understand how fickle the pop music industry can be, which certainly makes it a bad idea to take a lengthy break from the business, say, for eight years.This is why it seems more than “so yesterday” that actress and singer Hilary Duff released her last album “Dignity”. But she’s back in the game now with her fifth studio album, which came out in early June – “Breathe In. Breathe Out”.The 27-year-old is no stranger to people her age. She started as a child star and shot to fame as the leading character in Disney channel’s “Lizzie McGuire” in 2001. She basically grew up in the spotlight.But the experience was not exactly as enviable as everyone thought it would be. “It is isolating and it was lonely,” she told “Popjustice”. And after years of hard work she was “burnt out on everything”.Moreover, it was difficult for people to see Duff as anything but a teen star, something many who get famous while young struggle with.That was when Duff decided to take a bold step. “I was ready to live my life and not be blasted on the cover of Star magazine,” she said. “I needed to learn what I liked and who I was and make normal people decisions.”And she did. During the past eight years she got to remodel a house, get married, have a baby boy, Luca, and travel the world. She got divorced earlier this year.“I feel like it was a big growing process,” she said. “I’m an adult now and I was a kid before... I feel so much more confident as a person.”The album has been received positively. US entertainment site The Verge commented that it was “smartly structured and ruthlessly catchy” and “imbued with real personality”, and Time’s review says that the tunes are “binge-able” and are “going to get anybody hyperventilating”.“I know the pressures of what society thinks is a good choice to make, or what your family thinks are choices that you should make,” she told Buzzfeed when asked about advice she would give to young women. “As long as you’re doing the work on yourself and... being aware of what makes you happy and what you’re good at... and making sure you’re working hard, you know yourself the best and you know your path.”
