Evil Gru returns for more laugh
Being good is boring, being bad is super fun. The 2010 animated hit Despicable Me certainly proved that pure evil has a worldly charm to it.Now the bald, pointy-nosed supervillain Gru (Steve Carell) is back. Only this time he’s in a different mood. After stealing the moon and adopting three orphans in the last film, he has turned a new leaf. His devious plans and wicked mind have given way to jelly and jam making.But, it isn’t too long before Gru has to return to his criminal ways. The Anti-Villain League spy Lucy (Kristen Wiig) seeks his help to find a chemical that turns every living creature into a destruction-hungry machine. Along the way the cute yellow Minions spring up a big surprise.Unlike other sequels that try to turn a franchise into a money-making enterprise, this one actually has a good story and well-established characters like Gru.“As in the original Despicable Me, masterful physical comedy is what raises this animated pic so far above most of its competitors,” film critic Sara Stewart wrote in her review for the New York Post. “Sure, it’s not as novel as the first time we were here, but directors Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud stay true to the clever, slapstick vibe.”The cast should also be given credit for bringing these animated characters to life with their voices. “Carell’s Slavic inflections as Gru do the trick, as before. Wiig’s clever hesitations and comic timing help save the day,” Michael Phillips wrote in a review for the Chicago Tribune.Phillips also hailed the hilarious Minions as “a large part of the magic”. If you’ve seen the original film, you can’t help but love these funny yellow creatures. The sequel devises an even greater role for the Minions without letting them steal the show.Laremy Legel, a film critic for Film.com, wrote in his review: “The Minions routinely score on the comedy front. Their humor is completely based upon miscommunication and physical comedy.”The Minions’ humor and popularity is clearly valued by the moviemakers, too. Universal Studios has already announced a second sequel to Despicable Me, which will be called Minions. Let’s just hope the little yellow creatures can keep producing laughs and that Gru is a little more despicable next time.
