A legend revisited
Apparently, the most talked about TV series in China right now is Red Sorghum, currently broadcasting on four major networks. And here are a few reasons why you might want to tune in: 1) It’s adapted from the novel Red Sorghum Clan by Nobel Prize-winning author Mo Yan, which already had a renowned film adaptation in 1987; 2) it’s directed by Zheng Xiaolong, best known for helming Legend of Zhen Huan; 3) and it’s Zhou Xun’s first return to the small screen after more than a decade.After watching almost one third of the 60-episode saga, I’m pretty sure the series doesn’t disappoint — and sometimes it’s even better than I expected. But can it have an enduring impact like the Legend of Zhen Huan, or even its film predecessor? I’m a little skeptical.It’s the same story of the brutal unrest of rural China in the late 1920s and 30s. But if you’ve read the novel or watched Zhang Yimou’s film version, it’s easy to get confused early in the show. There’re quite a few newly added characters, such as Jiu’er’s first love and sister-in-law, and more storylines that you’re just not familiar with.This doesn’t mean it’s a bad adaptation, though. Whereas the film focuses more on social and political dynamics to reflect the spirit of the novel, the TV series pays more attention to detail and reflects lesser explored aspects of the book. To some extent, it has no choice — a TV series requires more substance to fill in long hours with content. Meanwhile, it’s more accessible to a television audience.The biggest surprise in Red Sorghum is undoubtedly Zhou Xun. Although she’s mostly known for making movies, Zhou has portrayed a couple of classic TV characters, such as Huang Rong in Legend of the Condor Heroes and the young Princess Taiping in Palace of Desire. Obviously, her elegant pixie-like features haven’t kept her from pulling off the role of the 19-year-old Jiu’er. Not as natural as Gong Li’s portrayal, though, Zhou certainly delivers a powerful new voice through the character.Mo’s novel conveys a strong and evocative tone. My concern, also my hope, for future episodes (especially after entering the Japanese invasion phase) is that the symbolism of red sorghum, the metaphor for change and loss in a particular time and place, can shine through.
