Top 10 cover female stars of 2010
6. Faye WongSix years is long enough for a singer receded from the public’s memory; while Faye Wong is absolutely an exception. As the most famous singer on China’s contemporary pop scene, Faye’s comeback in 2010 generated constant buzz among her fans and hit the headlines of various media. The prosperous concert box office and out-of-demand tickets revealed her stable iconic status and momentous popularity. Wong’s frequent updates to her micro-blog bridges the gap with the public, showing her approachable self. In 2011 Wong’s concert tour will continue in Hong Kong and Taipei, injecting exuberant vitality to the mild performing market.7. Tang WeiThe naked scenes in Ang Lee’s Lust Caution catapulted actress Tang Wei to sensational fame as well as engulfed her into overwhelming controversy. The immense strains wretchedly put this uprising star in a miserable dilemma with her performing career stagnated. With the lapse of two-year self-discovery, Tang returned to the public’s attention this year with her two films screened--Crossing Hennessy and Late Autumn; the former one earned her the nomination for Best Actress of Golden Horse Awards. To further propel her career, Tang is already featured in three blockbusters which will hit the cinema in 2011.8. Hsu ChiEither on the screen or the red carpet, Hsu Chi always impresses the public with her graceful looks and magnetic smile. The 34-year-old actress is still dynamic in her performing career, playing the leading role in three films and replacing Zhang Ziyi as the new brand ambassador of Emporio Armani. From the original controversy about her nudity in film scenes to the wide recognition of her meticulous devotion, Hsu has made 10-year endeavors to reverse the cynical prejudice and pave the way toward the Best Actress Award. Those twists and turns she experienced evolve into fortitudinous charm with the passage of time.9. Xu JingleiMulti-talented actress-director Xu Jinglei demonstrates her great versatility in various professions and aspires to explore her potential profoundly. Xu had been too busy working on Go Lala Go! - her fourth directorial feature which grossed more than 100 million yuan ($15 million) at the box office. She has just finished filming Cherish Our Love Forever, the film version of the hit TV series of the same name that launched her to fame in 1997. Though recognized as a fine actress and a proven director, Xu wants her name associated with a new line of jewelry. Her venture into the competitive fashion industry with a jewelry collection makes a hit in market performance. Moreover, Xu’s highly rated e-magazine and popular personal blog also epitomize her wisdom and talents.10. Zhang JingchuZhang Jingchu’s amazing acting in the literary film “Peacock” catapulted her to fame and her strong malleability generated opportunities to cooperate with diverse directors. Zhang is one of the few actresses who are merely active in films; long-standing conscientiousness landed her on China’s A-list of actresses. In 2010, four films featuring Zhang hit the cinema and the film “Aftershock” earned her the nomination for Best Supporting Actress of Golden Horse Awards. With her refined acting recognized, Zhang is persistent in the pursuit of the “Best Actress” crown.
