Skirt your competition
Available in varying lengths, styles and fabrics, a skirt can work on any occasion, whether it’s a date or a weekend trip. For girls, skirts change your look, keep everyone’s eyes on you and can boost your confidence. But with fashion trends always changing, choosing the right skirt for you is tricky.Here we run through this summer’s hot skirt trends so you can add new pieces to your wardrobe.Vintage 70s A-line maxi skirtA-line skirts are versatile and look good on any woman. Its flattering cut cinches at the waist but gracefully glides away from the hips and thigh area. With 70s-style fashion sweeping the fashion world this year, A-line skirts, especially those with a slit up the front filled with patchwork or an insert, are popular, fashion magazine Vogue notes. Whether they are made with suede or denim, they give you a folksy feel. You can match them with a pair of knee-length boots to fully embrace the 70s vibe, Vogue suggests. If you still feel the maxi fit is hard to handle, shorter mid-length versions are also available.Lacy dressDelicate lace is back in this year, and summer dresses aren’t shying away from this material. Lacy dresses come in a variety of lengths, from maxi to midi. Usually made of hard tissues, these dresses emphasize the effect of carving and perforation, notes fashion website Cinefog. Fashion brands like Rebecca Minkoff in the US and Valentino in Italy design dresses in this style. The white lacy dress is trendy, said fashion website Fashion Gum. If you wear it for evening parties, try it on with peep-toe silvery and sequined pumps. If you want to look feminine and cool, put on accessories like flower-shaped earrings, according to Fashion Gum.One-shoulder dressWell, it’s time to break tradition and show off your shoulders. A common style in ancient Greece, one-shoulder dresses are a killer trend this summer. Many fashion brands like Lanvin in France and Alexander McQueen in the UK have created dresses in this style. The diagonal neckline narrows as it crosses the upper body, creating a chic look. You can wear it for a casual day out or a romantic date. To make it work, pick a one-shoulder dress in a solid color and pair it with some accessories. One secret is to wear a belt, which can accentuate the waist and flatter your body, notes women’s lifestyle magazine YouQueen.Flared skater skirtThe skater skirt, also known as the “flared high-wasted mini skirt”, got its name from the skating dancer style that was popular in the 1980s, according to fashion site The Best Fashion Blog. This season, stretchy flared skater skirts are on the rise. With lightweight stretched knitting, it creates a stylish flared silhouette where the hem hits at the thigh. US singers Taylor Swift and Ariana Grande often match them with various tops and outerwear to make their legs look longer, and so can you. You can pair them with a crop top to bring the attention to your waistline, fashion magazine Glamour suggested. As for shoes, it’s recommended you choose pumps, casual flat boots, stilettos or high-heeled ankle boots, according to The Best Fashion Blog.
