The Top 10 Coolest Things About Baymax
The movie Big Hero 6 has delighted audiences of all ages and the biggest reason for its success is the film’s highly-squeezable hero, Baymax. The soft-spoken robot begins the story as a personal healthcare assistant and ends it fully weaponized, morphing into a rocket-fueled superhero thanks to his newest buddy, Hiro Hamada. These are the top 10 coolest things about him:10. He Comes With His Own Docking StationBaymax can be stored compactly and out of the way as he deflates into his own personal docking station about the size of a toolbox. He’s a practically-built piece of artificial intelligence.9. He Can Diagnose Any Health ProblemBaymax was designed by Hiro’s older brother, Tadashi, to “heal the sick and injured” as a personal healthcare assistant robot. So his diagnosis capabilities are seemingly endless. He’s equipped with a happy face diagnostic scale, defibrillators in his hands, and an admirable bedside manner. He’ll tell you, “There, there, it will be alright” if you are his “patient” and he won’t leave you alone until you’re well again.8. He Loves AnimalsBaymax is a protector of all life forms and that includes Mochi, Aunt Cass’ Calico housecat. He likes cuddling up with the little furball and ensuring his safety.7. His Soothing Robot Voice and FaceNot only does Baymax heal the sick, he does it with a relaxing voice that patients of all ages would find comforting. Voiced by Scott Adsit, Baymax will follow instructions, but he’s not immune to the occasional robot misunderstanding. He’s also simply designed so he’s incredibly easy to love, like Hello Kitty.6. Baymax Gets “Drunk” When His Battery is LowOne of the funniest scenes in Big Hero 6 is when Hiro has to sneak Baymax back into Aunt Cass’ house. The robot’s battery is low and Hiro gets a taste of Baymax the drunkard as the big guy deflates and has trouble walking and talking.5. He Can Repair HimselfAs a robot, Baymax feels no pain, obviously, so he carries some of the same qualities as his other movie robot ancestors. Like The Terminator, Baymax can fix himself if need be. All he needs is some Scotch Tape.4. He’s Not FastThe most hilarious thing about Baymax may be his dainty little footsteps. Equipped with a fat body and tiny legs, the inflatable hero readily admits, “I am not fast.” But that doesn’t stop him from heading out into the world.3. He’s Highly HuggableBaymax’s “non-threatening huggable design” makes you want to squeeze the ever-living life out of him. He’s the Pillsbury Dough Boy, the Michelin Man, and a giant teddy bear all rolled into one. Fred even compares him to a “warm marshmallow.”2. He Makes a Pretty Sweet SuperheroAfter he gets “upgrades” compliments of Hiro, Baymax becomes a rocket-fueled fighting machine who can soar above the city of San Fransokyo and take out any enemy. Hiro gives Baymax a carbon fiber suit of armor to protect his soft underbelly and creates an Iron Man-like power fist for him that can be launched at evil targets.1. Baymax is TadashiHiro realizes halfway through Big Hero 6 that his brother, Tadashi, never intended Baymax to be used as a weapon of vengeance. Tadashi wanted to help a lot of people and Baymax was how he would do it. The robot carries Tadashi’s selfless personality and calming demeanor and through him, Hiro can still keep a little piece of his brother always.
