The Hobbit:A fitting finale
Bilbo Baggins finally returns home in The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies after a long and tough journey that transforms him into a wiser, more experienced, and more compassionate man. However, it’s hard to say goodbye now that the three-part movie adaptation of English writer J.R.R. Tolkien’s novel has reached its conclusion.In case you missed the first two installments of the series, here is a brief introduction. This prequel to the Lord of the Rings trilogy centers on Bilbo (Martin Freeman), a small humanoid creature living in the lands of Middle-earth. Bilbo is a homebody content with the daily pleasures of living a simple life. However, when the wizard Gandalf (Ian McKellen) and 13 dwarves ask his help in retrieving treasure stolen by the dragon Smaug (voiced by Benedict Cumberbatch), Bilbo is faced with a choice.The Battle of Five Armies opens with the defeat of Smaug. But with the dragon’s fall comes new problems, as his treasure forces the dwarves, humans, elves and goblins to decide between working together and being destroyed.Exciting visual effects are the key to any fantasy-based movie, and The Hobbit’s third outing delivers in this regard. Spectacular castles, boundless mountains, breathtaking war scenes and colorful creatures abound. The Battle of Five Armies reaches the levels of its predecessors, but it’s lacking in innovation.As the shortest of The Hobbit movies, this installment runs at a smooth, tight pace. The movie is focused on the intimacy of conflict, giving it more emotional heft and impact.On top of that, there’s English actor Orlando Bloom as Legolas. For 14 years, Legolas has been drawing audiences (particularly females) into theaters with his blond hair and blue eyes. Appearance is power, and in this case, the power remains strong.The Hobbit movies haven’t won the same praise as The Lord of the Rings trilogy, with some critics pointing out that repetitive fight scenes cause the film to feel empty and short on plot and character development. Despite well-grounded criticism, The Hobbit trilogy serves as a welcome chronicle of one man’s spiritual development and fight against the temptations of greed and power. For many, these are the true themes of Tolkien’s novel, and they’re represented well on film. Step into Middle-earth and allow your imagination to be stretched by the mystery of this magical world.
