Return to Westeros
A fantasy novel can be a ticket to a land of magic. The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien takes us to Middle-earth to witness a battle of good and evil with dwarves, elves and wizards. And A Song of Ice and Fire, a series of novels by US author George R.R. Martin, invites us to another fictional world where powerful families compete to win the most important throne of all.Today, most people know Martin’s work by the name of the first book, Game of Thrones, since it is also the name of the famous TV series. Now, with its sixth TV season beginning on April 24, many of us are still wondering what has made Martin’s fictional world so popular.Unlike many writers who try to copy Tolkien or J.K. Rowling, Martin has something original to say and an original way in which to say it.The basic structure of the Ice and Fire books is familiar enough. In his made-up world, the action takes place on the continents of Westeros and Essos. There is a war between a number of powerful families for control of Westeros. The basic idea is made more complicated by supernatural “Others”.One character in particular has drawn readers’ attention: Daenerys Targaryen. The daughter of a former king, she can control dragons and wants to sit on the “Iron Throne”.None of this is very original in itself. It is Martin’s writing that makes the story special. His characters are complex. He says that he wishes to have “good and bad, noble and selfish well-mixed” in them. This makes his stories more morally nuanced than that of J.R.R. Tolkein.Tolkien’s world is one of heroes and villains, in which good always wins in the end. In Martin’s world, we are not sure of that. Indeed, we aren’t even sure who is good and who is evil.Many fantasy writers pack their tales full of supernatural and science fiction elements. There is magic in Martin’s books too, but he doesn’t use it too much. In fact, his stories have more in common with historical fiction than fantasy, and his characters seem as if they were based on actual historical emperors, kings and queens.It is Martin’s complex characters and suspenseful plots that have left readers and TV viewers unsure but desperate to find out what happens next in the battle for the Iron Throne.
