Spider-Man catches up
Among my favorite superheroes — Batman, Spider-Man, Iron Man, Superman, and Captain America — Spider-Man has always been unique to me. Compared with the other characters, who are either billionaires, aliens or genetically modified humans underneath, Spider-Man is really just a normal, geeky and average person when he’s not wearing a costume.So, when it comes to a film about Spider-Man, I have certain expectations. And with US director Marc Webb’s reboot of the series, especially the latest sequel The Amazing Spider-Man 2, I’ve finally gotten the Spider-Man film I’ve been waiting for.While the previous installment in 2012 was a bit darker and more suspenseful, this one retains some of that edge while adding quite a lot of youthfulness, or “pure comic book joy”.This time, Peter Parker (Andrew Garfield), the man behind Spider-Man, has to protect New York City from Max Dillon, an electrical engineer who is transformed into a living electricity generator in an accident. Meanwhile, Parker struggles with his relationship to girlfriend Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone), whom he has sworn to keep out of harm’s way.You may imagine there to be many action sequences and visual effects. Yes, The Amazing Spider-Man 2 is exciting and visually delicious, thanks to the fights and special effects. But first and foremost the film is concerned with emotions and lives — it’s a romance and a family drama and a comedy, as much as it’s a superhero film.That’s what Spider-Man was always like in my mind. The best about the Spider-Man series is defined by Parker’s everyday life, and the lives of the regular people around him. And this film gets all of that right.Speaking of Spider-Man films, let’s not forget about Sam Saimi’s Spider-Man trilogy (2002-2007). The films were popular, but they never felt entirely faithful when it came to the portrayal of Parker and Spider-Man. But The Amazing Spider-Man 2 combines all the best elements: it’s closer to the source material; it features great performances from the cast, and a Spider-Man who feels like he’s coming right off comic book pages in the way he looks, moves and speaks; and it attempts to tell a more complex story with honest emotions.Our long wait to see Spider-Man realized in live-action the way he was meant to be is finally over.
