Why men are tied to conventional neckwear
The United States will vote for a new president this November. Politicians are busy on their campaign trails. There’s something interesting about their attire: They rarely wear ties when giving stump speeches and pressing the flesh.Usually they do this wearing open-necked shirts. Why no ties? Well, it’s less formal and makes them look like regular guys.Candidates such as Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich who are vying for the Republican Party nomination, adopt a casual look when campaigning. Ties are out.But when it comes to the big, televised speech or debate then they all revert to business suit, collar and tie.“To press the flesh and get yourself elected it seems essential to dress down and appear casual, like ordinary voters, rather than buttoned-up or formal,” said David Cannadine, professor of history at Princeton University, US.Speaking on the program A Point of View on the BBC Radio 4, he went on: “But to undertake the very different task of running a country, it’s still expected that politicians will wear what is termed as business attire, which means a suit (whether you are a man or woman) and also a tie (if you’re male).What are the conventions of wearing a tie?Some schools and most business organizations have a dress code. It may stipulate that male employees who meet the public must wear a collar and tie. Why? Because it is thought to give a man a smart appearance. It makes him look respectable, professional, like a banker, businessman or insurance broker.“With an evening coat and a white tie, even a stockbroker can gain a reputation for being civilized,” said Oscar Wilde, the Irish poet and playwright. Of course Wilde was being ironic. Stockbrokers might be rich, but they were often snubbed by the upper class.Fashions in ties change. Kipper ties (broad, colorful ties popular in the West in the 1970s) gave way to narrow strips of material as worn by punk rockers.How you knot your tie may reveal your personality. In From Russia with Love, author Ian Fleming says of secret agent 007: “Bond mistrusted anyone who tied his tie with a Windsor knot (a wide symmetrical triangular knot). It showed too much vanity. It was often the mark of a cad.”Police officers in the UK used to wear white shirts and black ties. They looked very dapper. But the tie wasn’t fastened around their necks. It was a clip-on variety so that violent criminals could not drag them around by their ties.Times change. Today UK cops wear black T-shirts and stab-proof vests. For many professions the tie is a relic from a bygone age and will not be missed.
