Duo on hunt for truth
I’m usually skeptical whenever I read such words from critics as “the best” or “the greatest”. So, I didn’t quite buy it when True Detective, HBO’s crime drama series, was described as “the finest show on television at the moment”.But after watching the first season’s eight episodes, which ended on March 9, I was convinced to let go of my stereotype, at least a little.If you haven’t seen the drama yet, it stars Oscar-winning actor Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson (The Hunger Games) as a pair of Louisiana detectives investigating a disturbing ritualistic murder over the course of 17 years, from 1995 to 2012.True Detective is a great TV show, but it’s not as intense as House of Cards, as audacious as Breaking Bad, or as cultural as Mad Men. But it still stands out as a compelling series for a number of reasons: a mesmerizing performance by McConaughey and Harrelson, an intricate structure and witty dialogue by writer/creator Nic Pizzolatto, big-screen-worthy direction by Cary Joji Fukunaga, and an anthology format that has the potential to help change the way television is made.The pairing of detectives Rust Cohle (McConaughey) as the cynical genius and Martin Hart (Harrelson) as the “ordinary” observer is not a new idea, of course. Sherlock Holmes and John Watson are the classic prototypes. Nonetheless, the paring of Cohle and Hart is sublime, mostly because the show has no interest in identifying the killer, but rather digs around the psyches of Cohle and Hart. So it’s beyond a procedural investigation series.Yet the thing I like most about the show is its consistent tone and style. Instead of different committees (like most TV series), the entire first season was written by Pizzolatto and directed by Fukunaga. As a result, watching all eight episodes feels more like an eight-hour movie.True Detective’s anthology format means the next season will feature a different cast of characters and a new story, like FX’s American Horror Story. While I will surely miss the pairing of McConaughey and Harrelson, it’s a relief to know that Pizzolatto isn’t forced to stretch out a story past its expiry date.Where will the future seasons take us? I don’t know, but I can’t wait to find out.
