Silly in Silicon Valley
Silicon Valley, the heart of the American tech industry, has provided Hollywood with endless inspiration for movies and TV shows. Most of these offerings delve into the pathos of its most famous entrepreneurs. In the past three years alone, Apple visionary Steve Jobs has been the subject of two movies and one feature-length documentary, and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg was likewise profiled in the 2010 biopic The Social Network.Yet few shows have been willing to embrace the Valley’s quirky side. The HBO comedy series Silicon Valley happens to take this unusual approach. The show is about a geeky programmer named Richard Hendricks (Thomas Middleditch), who rockets to superstardom after he creates a revolutionary data compression algorithm.Ever since the show debuted two years ago, Silicon Valley has been known for lampooning tech culture in US. However, its third season, which was kicked off on April 24, takes the series’ comic absurdity to a new level.The new season starts with a dramatic scene: Hendricks, founder of the startup Pied Piper, gets fired as a CEO. “You have created a company that is too valuable for you to run: You should feel good about that,” his investor, Laurie Bream, tells him.Ludicrous as it seems, this scenario rings true in the tech industry. Celebrated tech entrepreneurs like Jobs, PayPal’s Elon Musk and Twitter’s Jack Dorsey have all experienced being pushed out of their own company.The show’s creator, Mike Judge, was himself a former programmer in Silicon Valley. He revealed what inspires the whip-smart satire from the show in an interview with The Guardian. “If you’re in Wall Street, you’re kind of unashamed about how much money you’re making,” Judge said. “But in the tech world, it’s not enough to be making money – you’ve also got to be saving the world.” That mentality inspires a running joke in season three. The series’ fictional entrepreneurs start using the catchphrase “Making the world a better place” to justify all their ideas, however bad.The stinging satire of Silicon Valley is the perfect medium to capture today’s tech culture. A rising number of college students are choosing to major in computer science. Around graduation season, many of them flock to California to launch their startups so that they won’t miss the new high-tech gold rush.“If you’re making a show about twenty-somethings, someone’s got to work at a startup because that’s what’s going on in the culture,” US writer and TV producer Evan Endicott told The Atlantic.
