Jake leaps to the next level
THE legendary producer Jerry Bruckheimer likes to say that he can make a movie from almost anything. Take, for example, his latest picture, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. It was inspired by a 7-year-old video game.But this time, the film doesn’t seem much of a stretch of Bruckheimer’s long and box-office-friendly career. The film, directed by Mike Newell and starring Jake Gyllenhaal, is based on a screenplay written by the game’s creator, Jordan Mechner. It imagines a medieval, pre-Islamic Persia-part historical, part fantasy-and centers on prince Dastan’s (Jake Gyllenhaal) quest to expose his father’s assassin. He is also trying to win the trust of the suspicious princess Tamina (Gemma Arterton) and protect an ancient dagger that contains powerful sand which allows the possessor to reverse time. Jake Gyllenhaal, as our courageous and resourceful hero, has engaging looks, with his big, blue eyes and that goofy smile. Apparently, he has been to the gym. In the film, he performs his own stunts, leaping across walls and over rooftops and camel backs with the agility of, well, a video-game character. The role may seem like a weird fit for an actor whose filmography includes Brokeback Mountain (2005), The Good Girl (2002) and Donnie Darko (2001). But in another way, perhaps because he’s not a traditional action star, his performance ends up being more intriguing than what you might get from a Hugh Jackman or a Gerard Butler. While Prince of Persia doesn’t try to replicate the sensation of playing a video game, its structure is undeniably episodic. As Dastan defeats one enemy after another in 6th century Persia, it feels like we’re watching him climb from one level to the next, with each challenge increasing in difficulty.To avoid making the story too heavy and serious, the film does also have its fleeting moments of silly fun. For example, Sheik Amar (Alfred Molina), the tax-resisting renegade, provides some comic relief with his illegal ostrich races, his black market double-dealing, and his speeches.Director Newell, best known for Donnie Brasco (1997) and Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994), is not the first person that comes to mind when you think of big-budget action directors. "I’ve worked with huge numbers of people before, but they were all school children," said Newell in an interview with The New York Times. He was referring to his recent film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Despite this seemingly "unfit" cast and crew, the film turns out to be OK. Respect should be paid for the many things the production designers, effects specialists and stunt guys did right. They’ve created an amazing visual display. It’s like two hours of national celebration fireworks, only with flying swords and sandstorms, raging battles and mystical palaces rising out of the desert. However, Prince of Persia does not disguise its video game origins: There are lots of scenes of a very buff Gyllenhaal running, jumping and climbing as if he embarked on a strict parkour workout. And yet, game elements aside, the film is almost a throwback, resembling the Indiana Jones movies. It’s a movie so old-fashioned that if it didn’t have a video game tie-in, no one would think to make it anymore. 
