In a comic book world
What does “W” mean to you? Perhaps nothing more than a character in the English alphabet. But for South Korean drama fans, W represents their wildest dreams, their ultimate love fantasy, and the trigger for their most recent *binge-watching *frenzy.Premiering on July 20, the South Korean TV series W-Two Worlds interprets “W” as “double u”–double universe. To put it simply, it’s a time-travel drama with an unexpected twist.The protagonists travel through different dimensions–the 3-D real world and the 2-D “webcomic world”. The story follows Doctor Oh Yeon-ju (Han Hyo-joo) in the real world, who unexpectedly *tumbles into an animated realm where she meets Olympic gold medalist and media *mogul Kang Chul (Lee Jong-suk). Their two worlds begin to collide as they interact with each other.Don’t go back to read that last line–you got it right. The TV series lives up to most comic fans’ wildest dreams–to meet and even form a relationship with their favorite two-dimensional character. At this point, who can resist the temptation of watching?The absurd plotline also contributes to its humorous effect. As the webcomic world is centered on its protagonist Kang, time in the 2-D world flies in accordance with his experience too. When there’s nothing happening to him, time simply fast-forwards. Therefore Oh, during her second trip to the 2-D world, witnesses her watch suddenly spinning and spinning until Kang shows up to tell her it was already two months later than she thought it was.The key for Oh to return to the real world also lies with Kang. Only when Kang feels emotional can the story between him and Oh temporarily stop. Realizing the trick, Oh tries to stir Kang’s emotions by slapping him in the face, kissing him, and even revealing her naked body to him.If you expect W-Two Worlds to deliver a clichéd love story as many other South Korean dramas do, you’ll be pleasantly surprised. While the chemistry between the two protagonists keeps it fun to watch, it’s not the theme of the drama. Instead, the duo work together to unravel the ultimate secret behind Kang’s existence–who he is and who’s making his decisions. In that sense, the drama has transcended the love story genre and become a thought-provoking philosophical work.
