Speaking for China
Making a speech at the United Nations in front of 500 people from around the world isn’t an easy task. And doing it in a foreign language is even harder. But Wang Yuan, 16, a member of Chinese boy band TFBoys, was up for the challenge.The speech was on Jan 31. While most Chinese teenagers were still enjoying the rest of their holidays, Wang had already spent days writing the speech and polishing (润色) it with the help of professionals (专业人士). He used all the free time he had – in his bedroom, in cars and on ﬂights – trying to remember it and read it with more confidence.The event Wang took part in was the Sixth United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) Youth Forum (论坛). It aimed to “eradicate (消除) poverty and promote prosperity (促进繁荣) across the world,” giving speakers such as Wang the chance to work with policy-makers directly.The subject of Wang’s speech was quality education. It’s a topic that few of his peers (同龄人) in China can talk about comfortably even in Chinese, not to mention English. In fact, it’s allowed in the forum to make a speech in Chinese. But Wang chose English anyway.“I made the choice because most people in the room are more familiar with English,” he said. “I was also worried interpreters (口译员) wouldn’t translate my words as quickly and precisely (准确地).”Although the speech wasn’t perfect, it was good enough for a 16-year-old. But for Wang, it was not a sense of relief (如释重负) that he felt after the nervous three minutes. Instead, he went through the entire speech in his mind to recall whether he had made a mistake or where he could have done better. “Only by then, I had the feeling of ‘mission (任务) complete’,”he said.Speaking at the UN wasn’t easy, but Wang said it was worth it considering what he’d learned from the experience. There may be little he can do personally, but the message he’s sending to his fans does a lot more – his post on Sina Weibo about the speech was shared more than 10 million times.The experience also changed the singer’s opinion on English learning.“After the speech, I started to pay more attention to my pronunciation and oral expression (口头表达),” he said. “Just burying myself in paper exercises is far from enough.”
