Dancers stretched to extremes
Ballet is one of the world’s most graceful and glamorous art forms. But the new Starz series, Flesh and Bone, explores the ugly, brutal side of the industry.The show, which premiered on Nov 8, centers on Claire Robbins (Sarah Hay), a gifted young ballerina who runs away from her abusive home in Pittsburgh and goes to New York to pursue a dancing career.Her skills soon earn her a leading position at a renowned ballet company. But her swift rise also rankles her fellow dancers. Robbins struggles to succeed in this highly competitive new environment while dealing with the scars of sexual assault.“This is the first time we’ve really seen the underbelly of a ballet company,” the show’s writer, Moira Walley-Beckett, told Los Angeles Times. Walley-Beckett spent 20 years in ballet herself, and she said she drew on that experience to give the show its grit. “A lot of those movies have catered to the very glossy, ethereal, optical illusion that is ballet, and we ripped the Band-Aid off.”To create a sense of authenticity, Walley-Beckett insisted that the show cast real-life ballet dancers. Hay, for instance, was formerly a soloist with the Semperoper Ballet in Dresden, Germany.“The verisimilitude was really important to me. I didn’t want to fake it. I didn’t want to have body doubles. I wanted to watch [the dancers] sweat and bleed and suffer and sore,” she told The Sydney Morning Herald.Thanks to the ballerinas’ talents, the show is able to stage dazzling dance scenes. But the show is not only appealing to dance lovers.“I’m not telling a story about ballet. I’m telling a story about the characters,” said Walley-Beckett.Indeed, Flesh and Bone gets under the skin of its characters, who all have their own dark pasts. The show tackles incest, drugs, eating disorders, the dancers’ low wages and their psychological and physical pain.“Going deep into the intricate aspects and darker  impulses of human nature has always been appealing to me,” said Walley-Beckett, who is also the writer and producer of the Emmy-winning TV series Breaking Bad (《绝命毒师》).The fascinating thing about darkness is that it sometimes empowers people. In Robbins’ case, her self-loathing and despair later turn out to be the source of her strength. Her darkness is also a gift. And this idea is the very “genesis” of Flesh and Bone, said Walley-Beckett.
