Sizzle in the snow
Perhaps you are now facing a cold-weather style dilemma. You love cozy, woolen clothes in winter, but if you wear them, you look 10 kilograms heavier. If you don’t, you’ll be freezing.Looking slim in winter clothes can be a challenge, but it’s not impossible. With these stylish items, you can stay super warm and look chic without having to bulk up.1. Thigh-high bootsThigh-high boots are a timeless winter accessory. When styled correctly, they keep your legs perfectly warm, while still giving you an aura of elegance.“The key to a sophisticated and classy look with such statement-making footwear is to keep the rest of your outfit slightly oversized,” wrote the style gurus at Gorgeautiful.com. Consider matching your boots with a long trench coat or a baggy sweatshirt, for instance.Also, be sure to wear the boots with opaque tights, leggings or dark skinny jeans. This will allow you to add volume and texture on your upper body.This season, tan suede studded boots with block heels are particularly fashionable, according to The Telegraph.2. Wide-leg pantsWide-leg pants used to be seen as sloppy since they are more relaxed and less constricting than tight jeans. But they are making a comeback, having been adapted for modern tastes. “As the key trend look this year, they come in maxi lengths”, according to the website TheBestFashionBlog.com.The trick is to always keep the top half of your body lighter than the bottom. A short, tight sweater is an ideal match for flared-out pants. Not only does a form-fitting top create stronger shoulder lines, it also gives you a defined waist.When balanced with such a neat top, baggy pants won’t look shapeless. Quite the opposite, this outfit will give you the perfect mix of sophistication and casualness.3. High-waisted skirtThere’s one fashion secret beloved by petite women everywhere: high waistlines work wonders on short legs.But no matter your size, high-waisted skirts can give your style a boost this winter season. They can help cover your muffin top and elongate your legs at the same time. Pair your skirt with a cropped sweater for even greater impact.High-waisted skirts don’t have to come across as matronly, either. US style blogger Kate Arends has noticed many fashionistas sporting preppy, vintage-inspired, high-waisted skirts. “The long denim skirt came back with street style gusto,” she wrote on the lifestyle site Wit & Delight.
