Prince’s legacy
April 21 was a sad day for many music lovers. Another pop icon, Prince Rogers Nelson, passed away at the age of 57 of unknown causes.On the streets of Minneapolis, US, Prince’s hometown, thousands of fans in purple outfits lined up to pay tribute to their favorite native son. Tears fell freely, as they blasted his famous songs like Purple Rain.Over the course of more than 35 years, Prince won seven Grammy awards, was inducted into Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004, and sold more than 100 million records. He revolutionized the music industry by successfully blurring the boundaries of rock, R&B, funk, pop and soul. But Prince is mostly remembered as an outlier in the music industry.Prince’s passion for music was atypical. According to The Wall Street Journal, he could hold marathon recording sessions that lasted 48 hours with good quality control. After finishing multi-hour performances on tour, he sometimes visited local pubs and kept playing until dawn.“There’s not a person around who can stay awake as long as I can,” he said in an interview in 1985. “Music is what keeps me awake.”Prince also taught modern audiences the importance of ownership in artwork. In the 1990s, Prince declared an open battle against his record label, Warner Bros, for control of his music.He wrote “slave” across on his cheek and changed his name to an unpronounceable “love symbol”, as a means of protest. “When you stop a man from dreaming, he becomes a slave. That’s where I was,” Prince told Rolling Stone in a 1996 interview. “If you don’t own your masters, your master owns you.” Gradually, fans started to refer to him as the “Artist Formerly Known as Prince”.In recent years, streaming has become one of the most popular ways of accessing music. But Prince saw this trend as a new way for tech companies to exploit musicians. Prince took legal actions to remove pirated videos of him on YouTube. He refused to put his music on major streaming services like Spotify and iTunes. Prince’s actions have influenced some of today’s highest-selling artists, like Taylor Swift and Adele. In other words, he helped reshape the landscape of modern music.Prince’s sudden death is a great loss in the world of music. On social media, dozens of US celebrities, including Katy Perry, The Weeknd, Justin Timberlake and Madonna, expressed their condolences. Even US President Barack Obama praised Prince for his great contributions to music.“Few artists have influenced the sound and trajectory of popular music more distinctly, or touched quite so many people with their talent,” Obama said in a statement. “‘A strong spirit transcends rules,’ Prince once said – and nobody’s spirit was stronger, bolder, or more creative.”
