Letters brought back to life
Letters as a way of communication have long given way to phone calls and WeChat messages.But a TV show, Letters Alive (《见字如面》 ), is helping bring this old way to keep in touch back into the present.Letters Alive took its idea from a UK program with a similar name, Letters Live, which premiered (首映) in 2013. Both shows feature famous actors and actresses, but there is no gossip (八卦), no eye-catching visual eﬀects (视觉效果) or any regular showbiz (演艺圈) activities. Instead, it’s just one person walking up to a microphone and reading a letter.But these are not just any letters. They are selected from a wide time span and a diverse range of subjects. There is, for example, a passionate(充满激情的) letter that famous painter Huang Yongyu wrote to playwright Cao Yu 30 years ago to criticize his lack of creativity. There is also a heartfelt note from Spring and Autumn Period written by two ordinary young soldiers to their elder brother to report their lives in the war zone.Every letter is like a small piece of history. By hearing them being read, it’s as if we are being sent back in time to experience a moment that we would otherwise never have had the chance to.“Letters Live makes us pause and imagine the lives behind the letters,” UK actor Benedict Cumberbatch, one of the readers on the UK show, told The Guardian. “It allows people from all ages and all walks of life to experience a moment of time in someone else’s life for a brief moment.”Compared to published texts, letters also come with a personal touch.One example from Letters Live was a note of thanks from the mother of a dying child to JK Rowling, author of the Harry Potter books. It read: “Mrs Rowling, Cancer threatened to take everything from my daughter, and your books turned out to be the fortress (堡垒) we so desperately (迫切地) needed to hide in.”According to Guan Zhengwen, the director of Letters Alive, it is this kind of humanity behind every letter that strikes a chord (引发共鸣) with the audience. It is also what made the show a big hit in China ever since its first episode (集) aired on Dec 5.“It’s a thing of the past that entertainment shows establish themselves only with pretty faces,” Guan told Sohu News. “Showbiz is starting to switch to a focus on wisdom and intelligence(才智).
