‘Glee’ takes its last dance
Whether you’re ready or not, it’s time to say farewell to McKinley High School.Fox’s musical comedy “Glee” aired its emotional series finale on March 20. The episode begins with a flashback to the very beginning when the original members of New Directions joined the glee club, and then things look forward to the future, offering a glimpse at how some of the main characters’ lives have progressed.The show first caught my attention because it reminded me of “Slam Dunk”, an animated childhood favorite about basketball.Both revolve around a group of teenagers who experience various difficulties but gradually, through music in the case of “Glee” and sport in the case of “Slam Dunk”, find strength and acceptance.In “Glee”, ambitious teacher Will Schuester wants to rejuvenate the school chorus, however every member of the team is kind of eccentric. Finn Hudson is a quarterback whose friends mock him for putting singing before sports. Rachel Berry, the highly confident lead, desperately wants fame. Mercedes Jones struggles with weight problems. Artie Abrams, a wheelchair bound guitar player, always feels less than a part of the group because of his disability.Through the maturation of these characters, the show imparts its central message: Be your own person, no matter what others think.The biggest secret to the Emmy Award-winning show’s success, beyond all doubt, is its music. For music lovers, just by watching “Glee”, you can keep up with the latest trends in pop music. The show covers hit songs from popular artists, featuring superstars including Adam Lambert and Britney Spears as guest performers. It also pays tribute to classic musicians such as The Beatles and Billy Joel. Music from “Glee” began sweeping pop music charts shortly after its debut in 2009. In 2010, the “Glee” soundtrack hit No 1 on a Billboard chart.Each episode of the series has a theme and a corresponding song carries that theme. For example, when Hudson’s girlfriend Quinn Fabray, who is pregnant, begins to consider keeping her baby instead of giving it up for adoption, she sings the Madonna song “Papa Don’t Preach”. The song’s chorus includes the lines: “I made up my mind, I’m keeping my baby.” Look up the song lyrics online to help you understand the connection better.With great music and choreography, tear-jerking moments, and fantastic guest stars － Glee has all the charm of a great musical drama. There have been complaints about its unusual character development and plot twists, but these criticisms will soon fizzle out as the show’s music and memory stretch into the future.
