Making a hard choice
Over the past two decades, the Mission: Impossible film series has always been connected with Tom Cruise. No matter what happens, he’s always been Ethan Hunt, the stubborn agent who always gives 110 percent to secure other people’s safety, regardless of his own.Hunt serves as a kind of action hero, but there’s an interesting change in Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol (2011) , the fourth movie of the series. In it, Hunt faces personal consequences for his heroic acts, as he has to leave his beloved wife Julia behind to save the world. And this idea continues in Mission: Impossible – Fallout, which arrived in Chinese mainland cinemas on Aug 31.In the latest film of the series, Hunt’s dilemma is even bigger than before, when he’s forced to make a choice between saving someone he loves or the entire world.The theme of the “moral dilemma”, in which the hero must choose between two very difficult options, is common in cinema.Characters like James Bond and Batman often face moral dilemmas of their own. Bond is loyal to Britain and spares no effort to finish every task, but this often comes at the cost of following the rules. For most people, killing someone even for a good reason isn’t acceptable. However, Bond has only two choices in front of him: kill his enemies or be killed.Differing from Bond, however, Batman never kills a single person in film The Dark Knight (2008). There was a heated discussion about whether Batman should kill the Joker, the movie’s villain. After all, Batman could have saved many innocent lives by ending the Joker’s life. However, he refuses to kill him and break his own moral code. Indeed, it seems Batman is a different kind of hero, one who puts his own morals above anything else.As is mentioned on the poster for Fallout: “Some missions are not a choice”, which means that good intentions often come back to haunt us. So, superheroes like Ethan Hunt and his Impossible Mission Force need to make the right choice by saving the world again. As the character Benjamin Parker, Spider-Man’s uncle in the movie series, wisely said, “With great power comes great responsibility.”
