Cracked earth and family in San Andreas
Heroes truly do emerge in troubled times. Recent 3-D disaster film “San Andreas” is an epic, so to speak, about individualistic heroism in an unexpected disaster.When California is hit by a series of record-breaking earthquakes, Ray Gaines (Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson), chief pilot of the Los Angeles Fire Department, sets out in a helicopter to rescue his estranged wife Emma (Carla Gugino) and daughter Blake (Alexandra Daddario). In the process, he ends up pulling his family, which is on the verge of divorce, back together again.US wrestler-turned-actor The Rock is obviously a perfect choice to play savior in this thriller. With his towering physique, the action star radiates a sense of security. Just a look is enough to give audiences the impression that he’s the man to save the day.Matched with his strength is Gaines’ authoritative competence. The hero showcases fancy flying and driving skills, with an emergency crash-landing after his plane’s engine breaks down being especially stunning.Gaines has bravery to spare, but he’s pretty selfish with it. When the gigantic earthquake rocks Californian cities from Los Angeles to San Francisco, the rescue helicopter pilot seems to forget that he is called to work to rescue more than just his daughter.And don’t be misled by the film’s Chinese name— there’s neither doomsday, nor a story about people trying to leave behind seeds for a future renaissance of the human race – but only a dysphoric father who’s employing every means available to him to rescue his family.He lends a hand to few others along his journey, at one point merely telling a helpless group to hide under the cover of a stadium. Gaines delivers as a perfect father, but he’s little beyond that.Canadian-born director Brad Peyton sought to integrate family dynamics into a thriller, and with San Andreas that’s what he’s done. The director says in a production featurette that his movie is“grounded, real and emotional” compared to other disaster films.But in putting so much emphasis on reuniting the Gaines family, Peyton forgot to bring something new to the disaster film genre.In fact, if you look closely you’ll find traces of other films within this one. An old couple sharing a last hug and kiss reminds me of a similar scene in “Titanic” (1997).The scene during which Gaines flies a plane through a collapsing building is adventurous and exciting, sure, but a similar set piece was already pulled off in “2012 ”(2009).Eleven years ago, memorable global warming doomsday flick The Day After Tomorrow asked viewers to question their part in the balance between man and nature. San Andreas foregoes the armchair philosophy, instead focusing almost exclusively on the hero himself.There may be nothing surprising or new here, but superb visual effects make San Andreas a fantastic feast for the eyes. That’s all there is to see here, and that’s enough.
