Jackson dies, but the beat goes on
WHILE his elaborate, stop-on-a-dime dance moves and sensual soprano may have influenced generations of musicians, Michael Jackson stood for much more than pop greatness - or tabloid weirdness.He influenced artists ranging from Justin Timberlake to Madonna, from rock to pop to R&B even to rap, across genres and groups that no other artist was able to unite. Jackson entered the public consciousness as an impossibly cute, preteen wonder in 1969, an unbelievably precocious singer in his family band, The Jackson 5. Even then, his dance moves, borrowed from the likes of James Brown and Jackie Wilson, were exquisite, and his onstage presence outshone seasoned veterans. The spotlight began to dim when he entered his late teens. However, when he met producer Quincy Jones, the musical landscape changed. The album Thriller, produced by Jones, became his greatest success and his career-defining achievement. Selling more than 50 million copies, the album was the globe’s best-selling disc. The impact was measured much more than in stats. Jackson broke MTV’s color barrier. He became the first black artist to be prominently featured on that young, rock-oriented channel when the success of Billie Jean and Beat It became so overwhelming it could not be ignored. He also established a benchmark for the way videos would be made - with stunning cinematography and precision choreography that recalled great movie musicals. But as Jackson’s fame grew, his eccentricities - from his strange affinity for children and childish things to his, at times, asexual image to his fascination with plastic surgery - began to dull the shine of his sparkling image. His skin, once a dark brown, became the color of paste, a transition he blamed on the skin disease vitiligo. Some, however, believed he simply bleached his skin in order to appear more Caucasian. That belief was rooted in his frequent plastic surgeries, which whittled his nose from a broad frame to an almost impossibly narrow bridge. His image was a tough one to look at, much less embrace. If his plastic surgery made him disturbingly unwatchable, soon, allegations of child abuse would make him reviled by many. He was overwhelmed with legal and financial troubles and went into seclusion after the trial for child molestation ended in 2005.A comeback seemed to be most unlikely. But when he announced he’d be doing a series of comeback concerts at London’s famed O2 Arena, not only did the initial dates sell out immediately, the demand was so insatiable he was signed on for an unprecedented 50 shows. He was expected to embark on a worldwide tour sometime after the concert series was completed in March. Of course, there will be no comeback now, no Jackson 5 reunion, no new music to share with millions of fans. But the legacy he leaves behind is so rich, so deep, that no scandal can torpedo it. The "Thriller" may be gone, but the thrill will always remain.
