Scary side of romance
If your girlfriend broke up with you, how far would you go to get her back?For American-Canadian singer Robin Thicke, the answer is writing a whole album and naming it after the ex.How romantic, you might say. But since the music video of a song on the album was released last week, the superstar has been called “creepy” and “stalker-ish” by the media.Thicke, 37, is best known for his hit single Blurred Lines from last summer. It was also last year that he and his wife of eight years Paula Patton announced their separation. Since then, Thicke has publicly begged the actress to take him back, frequently dedicating various love songs to her in concerts.The single, which debuted last week on Thicke’s new album Paula, is titled Get Her Back. In the video, a shirtless Thicke sings with a bloodied face. He cries, feigns drowning, and points his fingers at his head like a gun. Text messages, supposedly between Thick and Patton, are shown throughout the song. “I wrote a whole album about you,” he says. “I don’t care,” she says. “Can I come see you?” he asks. “It’s too soon,” she says. “I hate myself,” he says. “You ruined everything,” she says. The song ends rather ominously with a dark figure walking off into the distance with those words flashing across the screen.Step too farWe don’t know what’s really going on between Thicke and his ex-wife. But if he really wants her back, the general reaction to the video is that he is going about it the wrong way, says a Washington Post blog.A Jezebel blog says the song is desperate and wonders if Thicke is genuine in his repentance or just wants to sell a few more albums.Sophie Gilbert, writing for The Atlantic, says the album violates Patton’s privacy and is an act of aggression similar to taking out a billboard with someone’s phone number on it.Jessica Velanti, writing for The Guardian, says the abuser in a relationship often uses suicide threats (the drowning and the finger gun) for the purpose of manipulation.The video sends the message that the singer won’t take no for an answer. It’s not romantic, says Velanti, it’s downright scary.Velanti says Thicke’s actions constitute stalking. The US Department of Justice defines stalking as “a pattern of repeated and unwanted attention, harassment, contact ... that would cause a reasonable person to feel fear”.But the bigger problem, says Velanti, is that Thicke’s song sends a dangerous message to young men about what “romance” really is. Romance is not about obsession. Velanti says: “It has nothing to do with haranguing and publicly shaming us back into a relationship.”
