'RoboCop’ gives old classic new appeal
Remaking a classic movie is a tricky business nowadays. Stay too close to the original and your work will be considered redundant; veer too far and you risk losing hardcore fans.After watching Brazilian director Jose Padilha’s reboot of RoboCop — the 1987 classic sci-fi movie by Dutch director Paul Verhoeven — it’s fair to say that the remake comes dangerously close to the latter. But while it may upset some of the faithful fans, it may well win over a few new ones, too.Some things remain the same. The setting is still a futuristic Detroit (in 2028), and the protagonist Alex Murphy (Joel Kinnaman) is still a good cop who gets seriously injured on duty and is put into a robotic suit to be the city’s cyborg peacekeeper.But that’s where the similarities end. Padilha’s remake is set in a world where multinational corporation OmniCorp, led by ruthless CEO Raymond Sellars (Michael Keaton), has become the US military’s major contractor.Overseas, its soldier drones are helping to “enforce” the peace; back home, its advanced robotics department is helping injured soldiers to walk again. But despite their best efforts, there’s one area of business they haven’t yet cracked — securing the US’ own streets.Just like the 1987 original, the struggle between man and machine forms the movie’s backbone, though here the concept is upended. While the original concerned a machine that realizes that it is a man, this update basically concerns a man who comes to terms with being trapped inside a machine.That doesn’t mean Murphy, the new hero, gets all sentimental and soft. Along with much improved visual effects, there are some quite solid action scenes that make him reminiscent of Iron Man and Batman.Of course, a common problem with action-packed sci-fi movies is their short on intellectual weight. Compared with the 1987 original, which was a smart satire of American culture, the new RoboCop resonates to some degree with its depiction of military drone strikes. Yet it sidesteps deeper questions about the intersection of technology, law enforcement and politics.But Padilha’s update still works, because it logically transports the core concept into a future that feels closer to our own. And the movie is different enough to exist on its own without ignoring or disrespecting its roots. Given the potential mistakes when re-imagining a classic, you can’t be fairer than that.
