Not So Very Gossipy
On a recent Wednesday night, Mr. Badgley, 22, the "Gossip Girl" star, was shopping at Other Music, an independent record store in the East Village. Under the noses of a couple of indifferent clerks who either did not know who he was or did not care, Mr. Badgley bought a stack of CDs by artists ranging from the hip-hop performer RZA to the Malian kora player Toumani Diabaté.Outside, he confessed that his acquisitions were mostly impulse buys that his "Gossip Girl" salary could easily finance. "That’s one of the greatest things about working in TV," he said in a low deadpan. On "Gossip Girl," Mr. Badgley plays Dan Humphrey. The gig has been good for his wallet, his music collection and his love life - he is dating his "Gossip Girl" co-star, Blake Lively. With an evening to kill, Mr. Badgley wandered downtown in search of trouble - the kind that might let him indulge the darker side that he exhibits in a remake of the thriller "The Stepfather," which opened on Friday - but would not result in any damage to his preternaturally pretty mug. He stopped first at the John Varvatos store on the Bowery that replaced CBGB. After poring over dress shirts and vintage stereo equipment that cost about the same, Mr. Badgley declared, "At least they didn’t turn it into a bank."A few blocks east, he arrived at Mars Bar, the grimy dive where tourists go in search of authentic punks and authentic punks go to start drinking at midday. He seemed unsure of his choice of bars ("I think it’s closed," he said), but then he threw open its front door and entered.A Sid Vicious cover of "Something Else" was blaring on the jukebox, and the narrow bar was crowded with colorful patrons. "I think we’re wearing the same sneakers," Mr. Badgley said, pointing to a barfly in a patchwork of tattered winter gear and brown Nikes. (The woman with him was similarly attired.)As Mr. Badgley reached across to grab a watery Bud Light, he accidentally nudged someone with a tattoo of a revolver on his neck and quickly apologized. "That’s all right, brother," the man said. "You’re beautiful-looking." His girlfriend, tall and thin with her hair in long bangs, clearly recognized Mr. Badgley but acted as if she didn’t care. "I think it’s completely ridiculous," she said of "Gossip Girl." "I don’t really watch it ’cause it’s not my scene." One drink later, the punk pair - who said they played together in a hardcore band - had befriended Mr. Badgley. The woman, Janine Jastrzebski, praised Ms. Lively. "She’s impeccable," she said. "She’s really cute.""I’m a very lucky guy," Mr. Badgley said sheepishly. "I think it’s rare ... " Ms. Jastrzebski started to say."Rare for someone to be cute?" Mr. Badgley said."I think it’s rare for people to respect one another," she said, giving her blessing to Mr. Badgley’s and Ms. Lively’s relationship. As Mr. Badgley left the bar, Black Sabbath’s "Fairies Wear Boots" was playing. "I’ve found that people are cool if you don’t treat them like jerks," he said. 
