Grim tale electrifies viewers
People hate spoilers, especially when they reveal the endings of a whodunnit. But the BBC mini-series And Then There Were None reveals the fate of all the characters in its title.Based on English crime novelist Agatha Christie’s masterpiece in 1939, the show starts when 10 strangers are invited to an isolated island off Britain’s Devon coast. They arrive to find that their mysterious host is absent. Suddenly, they hear a strange recording being broadcast, accusing them all of having blood on their hands. And the “murderers” themselves begin to be killed off one by one... until there are none.The plot seems simple, but it’s the darkest and most intense crime thriller you can expect. Trapped on the island by stormy seas, the “murderers” soon discover that their fates have been foretold by a creepy nursery rhyme. In the manor where they’re staying, the 10 jade statues on the dining table start to disappear as the island’s occupants are picked off one at a time.It’s natural for the guests to feel anger and despair as they face their ineluctable deaths. Agatha Christie, true to her reputation as the “queen of crime”, vividly depicts their humanity and represents how people react differently under immense stress.Among the cast of characters is Vera Claythorne, an anxious, guilt-ridden woman who’s willing to kill the others to survive. Then there’s the ruthless, dissolute Philip Lombard, who seeks to cooperate with the other guests to find the real killer. One of Christie’s virtues is her ability to set the scene swiftly and introduce characters using only a few short sentences, commented Kathryn Harkup, a columnist for The Wall Street Journal.The source of Christie’s enduring popularity lies in her ample research and planning, according to Harkup. Throughout her prolific career, the late author killed off hundreds of characters by bullets, daggers and poison.“Christie’s training as a pharmacist gave her invaluable knowledge of poisons and enabled huge variety and flexibility in her plots. No other crime writer has used so many poisons, so often and to such great effect,” Harkup wrote.Sarah Phelps, the screenwriter of the BBC’s adaptation, believes that what makes the Christie’s novels timeless is their ability to touch on moral dilemmas. They are more than simple murder mysteries.And Then There Were None, for example, makes you think about what it means to take a life, according to Phelps. “At what point does judgment stop being dispassionate and start becoming psychotic? Does anybody really deserve this? There is something else... the most forensic examination of guilt, transgression,” she told The Guardian.
