Fresh starts give way to happy endings
F4 is playing a cat-and-mouse game with organizers of the CCTV Spring Festival Gala, who have reportedly asked the boy band idols to reform on the stage of 2011 Spring Festival Gala.The Gala is the most-watched TV program on Earth, with about 700 million viewers, and an invite to the show is seen not just as an honor but a significant opportunity to make mountains of money. This will not worry the members of F4, however, who are all flying solo and doing well in their respective careers, after last performing together two years ago.The CCTV producers are obviously keen to pull another rabbit out of the bag after former 80s boy band, The Little Tigers, reunited for a special performance at this year’s Gala performance, in February.The only "mouse dropping in the porridge", to paraphrase a Chinese expression that means much the same as "fly in the ointment", is that one F4 member is not keen on the idea.F4’s Ken Chu wrote on his Sina Weibo micro blog the reunion would not take place because of a "mouse shit". This was taken to refer to band mate Jerry Yan, who has been plucked to play the lead opposite Zhang Ziyi in the new Mulan movie and is reportedly so busy he’s not interested in reforming F4.Karena Lam, the Canadian-born, Hong Kong-based actress, best known for her innocent image, has been in the news of late for leading the media on a prolonged paper chase. A month ago it was leaked that she was retiring from showbiz and returning to her family’s home in Toronto. Then it emerged that she was pregnant. This naturally led reporters to wonder whom the father might be.Rumors that he was a married man sprang up and were only headed off when Beijing-based commercial director Steve Yuen belatedly admitted he was Lam’s squeeze. He admitted he had been married before but said he divorced and married Lam in June. The story appears to have a happy ending as various Hong Kong media sources are saying the couple will have fraternal twins at the end of the year.Women, beware of loose-fitting frocks and baggy shirts! Hong Kong model Gaile Lok’s preference for these items of clothing has had news hounds speculating that she is pregnant too.Lok, who is married to singer and actor Leon Lai, turned up at a promotional event in Hong Kong and complained about the gossip."Every week I learn of rumors about my marriage, such as arguing with Leon and supposed signs that I’m pregnant. I’m not, and I’m fed up with all the talk about it," she said, according to 163.com.In what has been a bumper period for baby news, "heavenly queen" Vicki Zhao Wei has denied her marriage is in crisis, after she gave birth in April. The actress has posted pictures of herself and hubby Huang Youlong, claiming they are as happy as sand flies. She wrote on her Twitter micro blog: "To love, yes, and I hope all of you can get love, lots of love".Another happy ending.
