“Chinglish” English on the rise
Chinglish is ever more widely used in China.Remarkably, while we Chinese are criticizing our sometimes-poor command of the language, there are foreigners who are trying to preserve examples of Chinglish. Chinglish has fans abroad“Chinglish” is grammatically wrong, misspelled English written and spoken by Chinese. You see many examples of it on signs According to Britain’s Guardian newspaper, Chinglish is becoming so popular on the Internet that the phenomenon is generating its own specialists. However, the days of Chinglish may be numbered. In preparation for the World Expo in Shanghai, city authorities have started a campaign to stamp out bad English.Facebook “save Chinglish” groups carry more than 2,500 examples of English misuse and attract over 8000 followers, the Guardian reports. You can see another 3000 examples at a site called “The Chinglish Pool” at www.flicker.comRick, a Chinglish lover, is one of many who say that he is not mocking the way Chinese speak and write the language. Chinglish expressions catching onAt “Top 10 Chinglish”, an online survey, “Good good study, day day up”, with 3417 votes, is the most popular Chinglish expression.Statistics suggest that 70 percent of voters support the use of Chinglish and say that one day foreigners too will use it. As one person argues, ”Since we have Indian, Australian and American English, why shouldn’t we have Chinglish?” Of additions to International English since 1994, between 5 and 20 percent derive from Chinese English use.“Long time no see” now standard English.No matter what point of view a native speaker has, the speaking and writing habits of newcomers to the language are bound to have affect on it. Take the example of, “long time no see,” which is a standard phrase now.Some foreigners argue that public Chinglish should be corrected, urgently. A machine has clearly translated a sign, which reads, “after first under on, do riding with civility”.These literal, word-for-word, “translations” puzzle some foreigners. Those who know Chinese culture, on the other hand, think of them as an interesting phenomenon.But Oliver Lutz Radte for one, the German author of More Chinglish: Speaking in Tongues, will be sorry when “Welcome to presence” is replaced by the simple “Welcome”. For him, Chinglish is for amusement and shouldn’t be taken too seriously.
