An artsy assassin
Since his very first day in the movie industry, art film master Hou Hsiao-Hsien has wanted to shoot a martial arts film, drawing on elements of Chinese fantasy.Now, the director has finally released his first martial arts feature, The Assassin. However, for viewers expecting spectacular kung fu sequences, this film will probably disappoint.But what it lacks in action is made up for in aesthetic refinement. The Assassin is the Taiwanese director’s first feature in eight years, and it is a feast for the eyes. Its long shots of gorgeous landscapes and poetic approach to its characters reflect Hou’s signature style.Based on the tale of a female assassin in the Tang Dynasty, the film revolves around Nie Yinniang (Shu Qi), a young girl who is kidnapped and trained to be an assassin. As the story slowly unfolds, this mysterious hitwoman starts to meditate deeply on the meaning of killing and life.Aside from its stunning sceneries and detailed period costumes, its fighting scenes are also beautiful, in spite of all the blood and gore. A review from The Telegraph gasps in admiration. Critic Robbie Collin wrote, “What combat there is looks less like choreography than calligraphy, the warriors’ bodies swirling through shots like an ink-brush over parchment.”Often, the most acclaimed films include lots of twists and turns, and a plot that relies on dramatic conflict. But The Assassin breaks this mold. The film’s storyline is, in a sense, weak. Its pace is slow, and its dialogue minimal. And its use of an ancient Chinese language style makes its hazy plot even harder to follow.Hou refused to dilute his film with any overwrought drama. “Whatever story I shoot, they are all about life. Films are magnified truth,” he said in an interview with Sina Entertainment.The Assassin is Nie’s coming-of-age story. Nie, a killing machine, finally learns to lay down her sword. Through this exquisite female character and her range of emotions, Hou conveys his own idea of wuxia, a genre of Chinese fantasy. “In the Tang Dynasty, many people knew a little of kung fu. That’s not a big deal... Nie attracts me because of her sense of commiseration.”This isn’t the kind of film you watch. The Assassin is the kind you gaze at and slowly digest. That’s the only way to appreciate a film that’s nothing less than visual poetry.
