Can’t stop the K-pop
I remember the first time I ever heard the term “Korean Wave”. It was in the late 1990s, and I was a teenager. Back then, pioneer boy bands and girl groups such as H.O.T., NRG and Baby V.O.X. had totally changed my understanding of pop music.Now, almost 20 years later, the invasion of South Korean pop music is ongoing. The latest evidence is Saturday’s MBC Korean Music Wave, a concert held for the very first time in China (at the National Stadium in Beijing), where some of the biggest names in the South Korean music industry performed, including EXO, INFINITE, Girls’ Generation, T-ARA and 2PM.In addition to taking off in Asia in a big and enduring way, K-pop (short for Korean pop music) is also conquering the world, finding popularity in the US, music’s biggest market. On Aug 25, Billboard officially launched the new K-pop music chart, ranking the best-selling South Korean songs both in the US and the home country.Honestly, I’m not a big fan of K-pop itself — the catchy and calculating strain of music that somehow manages to simultaneously sound like every contemporary musical genre, mostly electronic dance music, arranged in conventional pop song structures. But if you see K-pop as a culture, things get more interesting.Assembly lineFirst, the process of creating a K-pop singer, mostly through forming boy/girl groups, is like car production: Industrialize and focus on exports. Talent agencies find potential singers, often through global auditions. The training of the future stars, who are taught to sing and dance, act and learn foreign languages, can take three to seven years.In the South Korean model, a pop group is more like a brand than a proper band. For instance, SM Entertainment’s Super Junior boasts 12 members. This allows the company to break the band down into sub-units targeting different markets, including Super Junior-M (Mandarin pop music), Super Junior-T (trot music, a form of Korean music dating back to the early 1900s), and something called Super Junior-Happy.The pace of the K-pop music production is quick. You get one song that can last for a week, and that’s it. The record labels always want something new out of artists, in order to sell more music, as well as draw more fans. So it makes sense why South Korean singers are under huge amounts of pressure.But meanwhile, there is good news for K-pop fans. If you’re a K-pop fan, you’re really getting involved in a community of people. They all like the same band as you, you all get to know the same thing, and it becomes a family. So maybe that’s why everyone’s so passionate.You feel the dedication of those South Korean artists who are taught to fight in life, and understand that dreams are attainable. Then you get music that makes you dance and smile. What else is needed?It seems that K-pop’s ability to dazzle is in no danger of diminishing just yet.
