Ji Xianlin, the reluctant master
Ji Xianlin, dubbed by many as the "master of Chinese culture" had died of heart attack. He was 97.Ji repeatedly asked the media to stop calling him a "maestro in traditional Chinese culture" but despite the protests, the "master" title stuck."Ji’s leaving is the ending of an era," says Zhao Rengui, professor of Beijing Normal University. "There are fewer and fewer masters accomplished like him nowadays."Son to an impoverished rural family in Linqing, Shandong province, Ji was admitted to Tsinghua University in 1930 and majored in Western literature.Five years later he went to Gottingen University in Germany as an exchange student, majoring in Sanskrit and lesser-known ancient languages like Pali.He would spend more than 10 years in Germany and received his PhD in 1941.In Germany, Ji met Irmgard, his friend’s landlord’s daughter, who helped him type his dissertation, because he could not afford a typewriter. The two soon fell in love but Ji was already married in China and made the hard decision to give up the relationship and returned to China in 1946.In 1946 he became a professor at Peking University and soon founded the department of Eastern languages in the university.Ji published 11 academic books and over 200 papers in more than 10 academic fields, including Chinese cultural research, comparative literature, and Sanskrit.Ji maintained that "Cultural exchange is the main drive for humankind’s progress. Only by learning from each other’s strong points to make up for shortcomings can people constantly progress, the ultimate target of which is to achieve a kind of Great Harmony.""One thing about Ji that deserves our admiration is that he never fears to tell the truth. He speaks out what he thinks," says Zhao.In 1998, Ji published Memoirs from the Cowshed (Niupeng Zayi), a resonating book recording his experience in the "cultural revolution" (1966-76) and reflection on the turmoil."This small book is written with tears and blood," he wrote. "It is my biggest joy to finish it when I am alive. It is the best gift I can give to the young generations.""I have a strong faith that if the process of such a disaster is truthfully recorded, it will be a mirror for our great nationality", he once said. "To look at ourselves in the mirror often will be very beneficial."Ji won affection from general public also for his unassuming personality and humility.Twenty years ago, a freshman, busily going through enrollment procedures on his first day at Peking University, ran into an old man on campus. In a frantic rush, he asked his senior to look after his luggage.When he remembered his luggage hours later he rushed back and found the old man sitting by his bags in the searing sun and reading a book. The old man was the vice-president of Peking University."For a new student to Beijing, the luggage was his most precious belonging. I must treat his trust seriously," Ji recalled the story to his friend, journalist Tang Shizeng.Peking University, where Ji worked for 63 years, announced Ji’s passing in a statement calling him a "senior professor" instead of "master", a title Ji urged the nation’s top university to remove many times.
