Local fare fights back
Over the past two decades, foreign catering firms from McDonald’s to KFC have dominated the fast food market in Shanghai. Many local residents may still remember the Shanghai-based Ronghua Fried Chicken’s failure in competition with KFC.However, all that is changing as traditional tastes are fighting back.The ancient patriotic Chinese poet Qu Yuan (340-278 BC) once wrote that Chinese cuisine was so delicious it could tempt a soul to return from the dead.Weary German tourist Rudi Steinrock couldn’t absorb as magic the energy that Qu described, but he did find a Chinese fast food chain near Shanghai Railway Station that fully satisfied his hunger. "It serves a set with lamb, rice, vegetables and soup. The dish is salty and sweet with the carmine color and great aroma. And it is no more than 30 yuan (US$4.40)," says Steinrock.Given the nation’s pride in its culinary traditions and the diversity of ingredients, it is surprising to find that many Chinese embraced the exotic taste of hamburgers, pizzas and fried chicken, on somewhat limited Western menus. "Not for a preference for tastes, I choose Western fried chicken and hamburgers mainly for their swift service and they can be easily found in every corner of the city. In fact, I prefer the Chinese foods - more choices and healthier," says office worker Zhou Yanyan. The fast food market is expected to reach 2 trillion yuan in value in 2010, and a larger number of consumers would prefer Chinese-style cuisine rather than Western food, according to Yang Liu, vice chairman of China Cuisine Association.After years of looking on from the sidelines, Chinese fast food chains are embracing a shift in strategy. They have learnt the art of management and quality control from their Western rivals and are now bringing them to local cuisine.International fast food chains are also tailoring their menus to local tastes to win more local customers. Some multinational food industry giants, such as Yum!, have introduced Chinese-style fast food. Today, if you are on a tight schedule in Shanghai, you can have healthy and tasty Chinese fast food, such as Yonghe King, Kung Fu Restaurant or East Dawning. They offer quality food at reasonable prices and often change their menus, adding seasonal treats. Most Chinese fast food chains also deliver.Kung Fu RestaurantThe Kung Fu fast food chain was started 15 years ago by a 22-year-old Chinese man. Now there are about 15 outlets in Shanghai and over 300 around China. They feature a memorable company logo featuring Bruce Lee. The set meals cost about 20 yuan, and include a rice bowl, soup, boiled vegetables and a meat dish. East DawningWith about 15 stores in Shanghai, East Dawning began five years ago as a test for a new concept of Chinese fast food. It is playing on the same team as KFC, under Yum!’s banner. It is a fusion of the KFC business model with Chinese cuisine, offering cheap food in cheerful surroundings.Chinese food is served exclusively, but focuses on those more quickly and easily prepared dishes. Soft drinks are eschewed in favor of traditional Chinese drinks such as soy plum juice. Yonghe KingYonghe is the name of a suburb of Taipei city in Taiwan, where several decades ago there appeared a breakfast shop specializing in fresh soybean milk. A chain by the same name was started in Shanghai in 1995 by Taiwanese investors. Now it has more than 30 restaurants in the city.Yonghe King is most famous for its freshly made soybean products, costing from 5 to 8 yuan.
