Dating ‘apocalypse’?
As many a well-meaning friend may tell you, romance is at an end. It’s dead. Kaput. The steady advance of digital technology has wiped–or swiped – it clean off the face of the earth.After all, we’ve replaced human interaction with an army of apps and social platforms, all designed to fill the desert wasteland of our social calendar. Ever find yourself yearning for the fire of a lover’s gaze, the electricity of the lightest touch? You may just have to settle for the vulgar advances of a winking emoji, or perhaps the gentle glow of a Nicholas Sparks movie.The end is nigh. It’s official. Last September, Vanity Fair magazine declared this era to be “the dawn of the dating apocalypse”. According to the article, apps like Tinder and Momo have overthrown modern romance.But as tempting as all this doomsday talk may seem, it might not be all that accurate. Research released on Feb 11 by the Pew Research Center indicates there may be plenty of eligible mates who haven’t yet joined dating apps. The study determined that only 15 percent of American adults have used a dating app or a dating website – not a huge leap from the last recorded number, 11 percent in 2013.In fact, technology might not be the enemy at all. Even couples who seem absorbed in their cell phones might have a relationship that’s healthier than it appears. No matter how close two people live to one another, some quality texting can help make them feel even more connected.Communications experts at the University of Wisconsin-Madison recently investigated the impact of mobile communication on couples. The results, out this month, show that mobile media use made partner “idealization” jump. That’s the process through which lovers see each other in “unrealistically positive ways”.“Idealization is necessary in romantic relationships. If you don’t think your partner is more special than everyone else, you won’t be as satisfied,” said researcher Catalina Toma in a university press release.On average, the couples Toma studied reported texting each other for at least two hours each day, on top of their other social media use. “It might seem trivial, but it’s really relationship maintenance,” she said. “There’s a sense of maintaining an emotional connection and that your partner is psychologically close.”That’s a theory bolstered by the work of digital anthropologist Stefana Broadbent. She argues that digital media also restores an old-fashioned sense of intimacy.The way she sees it, before the Industrial Revolution, individuals lived and worked in the same location. They were constantly surrounded by their loved ones. But the Industrial Revolution forced people out of their homes and into factories. Work and personal life were split in two.But digital media has actually helped to rebuild those ties. With the help of digital technology, people “are breaking an imposed isolation” that workplaces force upon them, Broadbent told TED Talks.So go ahead – turn to technology for your dating needs. It might be a step in the right direction after all.
