Strategic gaming
The old-fashioned holiday reunions are characterized by karaoke, a group dinner and some shopping. Feel the need for some fresh ideas? Well, there’s “Sanguosha”, a role-playing card game which has made its way from school dorms to parties all over the country.The game was designed with the novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms in mind. As the name suggests, it’s set in the Three Kingdoms period, and participants take a role, from warrior to sage, in that period. They are expected to use the special abilities they’re given to kill or protect the king, to win. While some participants enjoy the feeling of being a bad guy or of friends bonding, some find its culture significant and find it a new hobby.This is a role playing card game, like mafia, and participants draw identity cards at random and keep their identity secret. But it differs from mafia, in that there are more options: you can play a “loyalist” who defends the lord to the end to try to win; and there are “rebels” who want to overthrow the king and kill him; then there’s the “treacherous” type, a sort of double-agent, weighing the power of loyalist and rebel and gradually gathering enough power to eliminate all parties, even the king.Lu Xiaoyun’s one of those people who enjoy hiding at first before ambushing both the good and evil forces, ultimately, to destroy everyone.“It’s such an immoral thing to do in real life,” says Lu, a 21-year-old international relation major at Remin University, “but it’s a game, so ambushing others after they’re too exhausted to defend against my attack, was every exciting. It’s funny to see the faces of those cocky boys.”Students with different personalities show their own particular style. Cheng Jia, a 19-year-old economics major at Xi’an Jiaotong University, in fact thinks that the more complicated role-playing games provide a chance to get to know the personalities of friends better.One of Cheng’s neighbors in the next dorm room is an introverted young man who hardly says anything most of the time. But in the game, his strategy has gained him praise and he’s become more comfortable in chatting with members of his peer group.Rather than get addicted to the game, Lin Jiaji, a 21-year-old automation major at Beijing Institute of Technology, prefers to look to the cultural level.Lin was so fascinated by the characters in the game that he wanted more background. The minute he finished the first chapter of The Romance of the Three Kingdoms, he knew he’d found a treasure.He now thinks that there are so many resources in Chinese history that could be exploited to help young people.And it’s not just the book. Lin now also watches the early version of the TV series of The Romance of the Three Kingdoms, every day, and has read other materials about the late Eastern Han period.“I feel a stronger attachment to the country’s history and culture now,” he said. In reading all those books, he found that his writing had actually improved. Not only that. “My girlfriend says that when I talk about things and refer to classical examples from history, she feels I’ve got great charisma,” he added.
