Depicting youth
I went to the movie theater the other day to see Never Gone (《致青春2•原来你还在这里》). I knew it was probably going to be another film where actors in their late 20s pretend to be in high school. No surprise there.The one unexpected part came in the casting of the characters. Typically, Chinese youth films tend to focus on the chemistry between a high school bad boy and his polar opposite, a *prim, upstanding female character. Never Gone switches the roles and turns it into the story of a rich, straight-A boy who meets an *underprivileged girl. But after a fleeting moment of surprise, I soon realized it was just the same Cinderella tale all over again.Youth-oriented films seem trapped in a fixed pattern: They all center on a *sensational love story, rife with anxiety about school and the future, and they all have to be told in the form of dramas–lots and lots of dramas. The clichéd and almost always predictable plot twists manage to kill all the fun.Then a friend recommended an American film, Everybody Wants Some!!, released earlier this year. It was the work of the veteran American director Richard Linklater, and it had gotten largely positive reviews for its tale of college-aged *shenanigans.The story couldn’t be any simpler. In late August 1980, three days before the new semester starts at Texas Southern University, an 18-year-old freshman named Jake arrives in his new dorm and meets his roommates. Those three, short days form the time frame for the whole film, in which the boys get laid, get stoned, get bored–just being young and absolutely free. They also talk, play baseball and search for self-discovery.The whole time while watching the film I was waiting for something to happen–the usual *clunky plot twist, one that veered the narrative into the realm of *sappy teen dramas. But nothing like that did. The film has no climax and little drama. Everything seems to flow naturally, as if the characters are in an *eternal present. The film is about three days of youth, yet it seems to show all that youth is ever about.If you have watched Linklater’s classic “Before” trilogy–Before Sunrise (1995), Before Sunset (2004), and Before Midnight (2013)–or his 12-year-long project Boyhood (2014), you may already know that this is part of his unconventional storytelling style.“Richard Linklater has never cared about plot in his movies, and he’s never really concerned himself with *adhering to genre, either,” wrote American reporter Bryan Bishop on The Verge. “What Linklater loves to do is simply hang with his characters.”Some movie critics have called Everybody Wants Some!! another one of Linklater’s “masterpieces”. I wouldn’t go so far as to say that, probably because I failed to connect with the film’s setting. It’s clearly a *nostalgia piece, celebrating 1980s Americana, with its *mustachioed characters and bell-bottom jeans. But Linklater’s novel way of depicting youth is strangely appealing.Perhaps the only word that I can think of to best describe the film is “different”–and not in a bad way.
