Hebe just wants her voice to be heard
S.H.E. is arguably the most successful girl group in the Mando-pop world. But in many music critics’ and fans’ eyes, Hebe Tien, a member of the crowd-pleasing Taiwan group, only became a real musician, as opposed to just another pop idol, once she released her debut solo album in 2010.On Dec 15, Tien wrapped up her third *consecutive concert at Taipei Arena. The excited singer didn’t stop her lively performance until 23:15. Knowing she had to pay NT$150,000 (33,000 yuan) for running over, she just laughed a hearty laugh and said: “Come on, take my money.”Tien told Taiwan female fashion website Womany that she feels blessed to be able to have her own concerts. “On my own stage, I can choose my own songs and present them with reflection on my own life experience. That’s a real blessing.”She now has a say in her own music too. There’s no denying S.H.E.’s commercial *prosperity, but are those catchy love songs – of which many are cover versions of Western hits – really what Tien would like to sing?We know the *headstrong young woman loves her group members but at the same time always dreamed to do the music she really wanted, even if it was an EP of English covers. Fortunately for her and her fans though, her dream came true. And what we do know is she has a distinctive *criteria when it comes to song choices for her solo albums. Latest release Day by Day (《日常》), which dropped in July, for example, tells of the *trivia in her daily life, including brushing her teeth, doing yoga and taking the bus.But being self-*indulgent when it comes to making music usually leads to a flop. The 33-year-old singer, who’s been in showbiz for 16 years, should be well aware of this. But what she knows for sure is the *whopping result a hit can bring. The 2015 hit single A Little Happiness (《小幸运》) has won her a number of nominations at both the Golden Horse Awards and Golden Melody Awards.But Tien herself prefers to walk on rough *terrain, as then “the views are better”, she told Womany. “Actually, so long as we pull out all the stops to produce one big hit, we can get a good reward from an album. But that’s not good for me,” the singer added. It seems that her biggest wish is for her music to express her own voice.Offshore Island (《离岛》), a single from Tien’s first album, To Hebe, may probably best demonstrate the singer. “I’m a small island, a *satiable island... I never worry about the small population on my island... I only need those who know me to know me.”
