Education helps actor Hiddleston
He can recite William Shakespeare’s Hamlet from memory and his favorite ancient myth (神话) is Homer’s The Odyssey. Tom Hiddleston, 36, could have been a professor teaching English Literature at a university, but the well-educated Brit chose to do something that he loves even more: acting.His roles on screen have helped build him a huge fanbase. Chinese audiences in particular are drawn to the loveable supervillain (超级大反派) the actor played in Thor (《雷神》) (2011) and The Avengers (《复仇者联盟》) (2012) movies. They also love the soldier-turned-spy role he had in BBC TV series The Night Manager (《夜班经理》).His latest work, Kong: Skull Island (《金刚：骷髅岛》, 2017), came out on the Chinese mainland on March 24. Set at the end of the Vietnam War, former military officer James Conrad (Tom Hiddleston), along with a photographer and a platoon (排) led by a colonel (上校), explores a mysterious island in the Pacific, which is said to be a graveyard (墓地) for missing planes ever since World War II.“Every time I play a new role, I try to be specific about who he is,” Hiddleston explained in an interview with TEENS. He was in Beijing on March 17 to promote the film. “[Conrad] is a highly-trained individual who had lost his sense of wonder, which is reawakened by the presence of Kong.”Hiddleston also explained what makes British actors, including Benedict Cumberbatch and Eddie Redmayne, so successful.For one thing, they are academically trained. Hiddleston studied classics at the University of Cambridge. After graduating with first-class honors, he went on to study at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA). When he’s not starring in Hollywood blockbusters (大片), he’s to be found acting in classical theater in the UK, especially the plays of Shakespeare.“There’s a philosophy (理念) of artistry in British training. We’re trained to be artists, we’re not trained to be famous,” he said. “As an actor, you commit (投入) your whole self to being intellectually curious, to being physically agile (敏捷的), to being emotionally compassionate (有同情心的). It’s like head, heart and body all working at once.”And the hard-working actor also credits (把……归因) his time on the stage for playing a part in his big screen success.“There’s something about British theater which is very old-fashioned, in the best way. There’s no digital magic that can make you better… There is no hiding place, there is no short cut, there is no fast track,” he said.
