Jay oozes cool despite flaws
Jay Chou could well be the ideal candidate to revive the graying genre of the musical film in the Chinese-language world. But judging from his latest effort, his talents, which are multiple and abundant, seem insufficient.The Rooftop is set in 1970s Taiwan but recalls 1950s America where young rebels ride motorcycles and pick street fights. Chou plays Wax, a reckless young man with a romantic streak. He sets his eyes on a self-regulation budding star, who is coerced into the film business to pay off her father’s debt. Coincidentally, she is also the love interest of the male lead in the film-within-a-film, who has fame and good looks but lacks the decency of a true gentleman. An even bigger rival is a red-haired gangster who is losing his territory to Wax.There are lots of song-and-dance numbers, many of which are conceived and staged with ingenuity. But they are often used to create atmospheres rather than heighten emotional expressions. As Chou explains, he uses the numbers in the same way as musical interludes that go with the screen images. So, they usually only last one to two minutes each.This strategy could be a nod to those indifferent to musicals, but fails to make the best of the genre’s potential to elevate mundane moments of mutual affection into magic ones that set the heart flying. The absence of a true love duet between the romantic leads is agonizingly obvious.Because Chou believes that villains should not sing or dance, the gangster part of the movie is quite detached from the buddy part. You’ll end up liking either half of the movie, but rarely will you take to both as they are incohesive.That said, The Rooftop shows numerous touches of genius. The set and costume design adds to the urban fairytale atmosphere. The songs, while fragmented, are not recreations of the period style, but rather, are refracted through Chou’s musical prism as he employs a rich variety of styles to fit each occasion. The scenes are masterfully set up and the shots very fluent, a testament to Chou’s maturity as a film director.Compared with Secret, his tour-de-force directorial debut, The Rooftop is more uneven, but shows his willingness to take on greater challenges. If he had used Broadway-style trial runs, he could have worked out most of the wrinkles and turned in a true masterpiece. But don’t worry. With his brilliance, Chou may well bounce back and deliver a slam-dunk next time.Raymond Zhou is a well-known film critic in China. He lives in Beijing and works for China Daily.
