Compared his split to a death
Angelina Jolie stunned the world in September, 2016 when she filed for divorce following an alleged altercation on a private jet between Brad Pitt and their 15-year-old son, Maddox.Now in his first interview since the shock separation, Pitt reveals he is tee-total, is in therapy and says his family has been ’ripped apart’, conceding: ’I hit the lottery and I still would waste my time on those hollow pursuits.’He told GQ Style magazine that the split was ’self-inflicted’ and when asked if the last few months had felt like he was grieving a death, he simply replied: ’Yeah.’The Fight Club star has quit alcohol since the incident, admitting it had become a ’problem’ during his life with Angelina, adding: ’Truthfully I could drink a Russian under the table with his own vodka. I was a professional. I was good.’I was boozing too much. It just become a problem. And I’m really happy it’s been half a year now, which is bittersweet, but I’ve got my feelings in my fingertips again.’’I mean I stopped everything except boozing when I started my family. But even this last year, you know - things I wasn’t dealing with.’He has now replaced boozing with therapy, adding: ’You know, I just started therapy. I love it. I love it. I went through two therapists to get the right one.’Alongside his bombshell revelation that his drinking damaged his relationship, the actor says that he spent too much time away from his children working on films.’I say that as someone who’s let the work take me away. Kids are so delicate,’ he explains. ’They absorb everything. They need to have their hand held and things explained. They need to be listened to. When I get in that busy work mode, I’m not hearing. I want to be better at that.’And it seems the therapy is working - Pitt refuses to take the magnifying glass away from himself, saying he is ’emotionally retarded’ and hasn’t ’been great’ at proving his feelings to his children, explaining: ’It’s hit me smack in the face with our divorce: I gotta be more. I gotta be more for them. I have to show them.’Explaining his life in the weeks after Angelina filed for divorce, Brad says he was too devastated to return to his home in Beverly Hills and needed to get away.He slept on a friend’s floor for six weeks as he tried to cope with the loss of his relationship and family homelife.Following the plane incident, Brad was investigated by the FBI following an anonymous tip-off. It was later closed with no charges but he faced a series of obstacles from Child Services in a bid to regain access to his six children.He and Angelina - who fell in love on the set of Mr and Mrs Smith in 2005 and wed in 2014 - are now working out their divorce privately, through the help of group counselling as a family, after a nasty start to their split.
