Big, fluffy and all ready to rumble
Superheroes don’t always need to have six packs and cool demeanors. They can also have a chubby face, a beer belly and a warm smile like the white inflatable healthcare robot Baymax from Disney’s Oscar-winning 3-D animated film Big Hero 6.Based on a Marvel comic, the film centers on 14-year-old robotics prodigy Hiro Hamada. After his older brother Tadashi, who is a university student delving into robotics loses his life in a fire, the boy reprograms Tadashi’s Baymax into a fighting robot and forms a superhero team to investigate the truth behind the tragic accident.The biggest selling point of the movie is the super lovable and balloonish Baymax. Looking like a walking marshmallow and moving and speaking slowly, he is the movie’s star. Although he might not look like the professional nurse he is, Baymax serves as a reasonable and competent healthcare companion. In any case, Hiro’s health condition, physically and psychologically, is always Baymax’s first concern.When Hiro commands Baymax to fight, something it doesn’t understand, the cute medical care robot instead tilts his head and tenderly asks what would improve Hiro’s mood, melting the audience’s hearts.Most Disney films start out with a feeling of impending doom. However, when trouble hits, our emotional investment in the characters only increases. We don’t want to see the innocent robot become an instrument of revenge.Robot movies are not new and have provoked profound thoughts for ages. In 2004 sci-fi film I, Robot, humanoid robots pose a fatal threat to humanity, and the 2009 animated film 9 opens with the near extinction of human beings at the hands of robots. But Big Hero 6 chooses to tell a simple but heartwarming story about the bond between humans and a robot.The ending of the movie seems a bit predictable. When Hiro’s possessed with thoughts of revenge, it is video clips of his brother that keep him from being swallowed by rage. Some might say this transformation comes too easily. But I’d rather believe family affection has this power. It’s love that inspires the young, indifferent genius to start to care about people around him and the world, changing Hiro into a true hero.
