Sherlock’s fan frenzy
If you are a fan of the immensely popular BBC TV series Sherlock, by this time you must have already watched the series’ New Year special The Abominable Bride at least once – if not twice or more.It’s not exaggerating to say the latest episode is a huge crowd-pleaser. From its set design to its script, the show is peppered with tiny details and clues that evoke knowing smiles from its fans. It is as if the show’s creators were winking at them and saying, “Hey, these details are included just for you, and we know you’ll understand them.”Since its first episode aired in July 2010, Sherlock has generated such a large fandom that it has become a global cultural phenomenon. All around the world, fans express their love for the show by writing fan fiction, creating manga books, setting up websites and filling discussion forums. Calling themselves Sherlockians, the fans have become a community, sharing pictures, gifs and inside jokes on social media.The show’s creators are keenly aware of the fan frenzy, to the point of acknowledging the fans through the show itself. The first episode of the third season, for example, is based on fan theories that were circulating around the Internet about how Sherlock faked his death at the end of the second season.The enthusiasm around Sherlock says a lot about modern fandom, which is defined by its zeal, creativity and participation. And according to a recent article published by the BBC, the original Sherlock Holmes novels, written by author Arthur Conan Doyle, were responsible for the modern phenomenon of fandom.Doyle’s stories were published in installments in the pages of The Strand magazine, and they were so successful that avid readers would line up at newsstands whenever a new story would appear. It all started with Doyle’s first Holmes mystery, A Study in Scarlet, in 1887.But Doyle’s true aspiration was to write “serious” historical novels like Ivanhoe author Sir Walter Scott. He began to feel like writing stories about the detective was a distraction from his real work. By the end of 1893, Doyle had had enough of Sherlock Holmes. In the short story “The Final Problem”, he had his villain, Professor Moriarty, push Holmes down the Reichenbach Falls, killing the detective off.But what Doyle didn’t realize was that the detective couldn’t be killed off that easily. His fan base was too strong. Angry readers wrote to the magazine to protest. Fans also began to write their own works paying homage to their beloved detective.Doyle insisted his finishing off Holmes was a “justifiable homicide”. But after eight years, in 1901, he relented and gave in to public pressure. He wrote a new story, “The Hound of the Baskervilles”, featuring Holmes before his fall.Then, in 1903, to the great joy of fans, Doyle brought Holmes back to life in “The Adventure of the Empty House”. The explanation was that it was Moriarty who had died in the fall, while Holmes had faked his own death.Before Sherlock Holmes became a sensation, readers simply “accepted what went on in their favorite books, then moved on”, says BBC writer Jennifer Keishin Armstrong. But with Doyle’s works, they were beginning “to take their popular culture personally, and to expect their favorite works to conform to certain expectations. They seemed to actually expect a reciprocal relationship with the works they loved.” And thus modern fandom was born.
