Try new series this fall
Attention all English lovers who learn the language in possibly the most relaxing way — by watching US TV series. Not only are many favorites on their way back in the upcoming fall season — who doesn’t want another year of Homeland? — there are also brand new shows to entertain you and become your new listening material for the rest of this year.Whether they’re must-see TV, worth a look, or potential car crashes, here’s a selection of series you’ll want to keep an eye on.The Michael J. Fox ShowChannel: NBCPremiere: Sept 26In this new comedy, Fox plays a beloved New York news anchor who retires after being diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease. Several years later he returns to work due to boredom and public demand.The series is based on Fox’s life, which gives it a bit of gravitas. It’ll be interesting to see how Fox handles comedy involving Parkinson’s. The show was picked up for a full season before NBC even saw an episode.The BlacklistChannel: NBCPremiere: Sept 23In what NBC chairman Bob Greenblatt described as “the highest-testing show in the last 10 years”, the world’s most wanted criminal James Spader mysteriously turns himself in and offers to give up everyone he has ever worked with. His only condition: He will only work with new FBI agent Elizabeth Keen with whom he appears to have no connection.The Blacklist is an elevated procedural, but in a world where NCIS (Naval Criminal Investigative Service) is still the top-rated show on TV, that’s not a terrible look for NBC.Super Fun NightChannel: ABCPremiere: Oct 2This self-described “Anti-Sex and the City” has one big selling point: Rebel Wilson, who was one of the most memorable actors in films like 2011’s Bridesmaids.For the past 13 years, three single women have set aside every Friday night as “Friday Fun Night”. That is, until one of the women, Kimmie Boubier (played by Wilson), decides it is time to take this party to the next level after befriending an attorney.The Crazy OnesChannel: CBSPremiere: Sept 26As ever, CBS developed the fewest pilots because it doesn’t have to completely rebuild its schedule every year. But that doesn’t mean this new series isn’t worth watching. With the names of film stars Robin Williams and Sarah Michelle Gellar appearing in the cast, you should definitely take a look. The Crazy Ones is a single-camera, half-hour workplace comedy about a father-and-daughter team in the world of advertising.
