Ride Home
At the end of “Furious 7”, while watching Brian O’Conner (Paul Walker) and Mia Toretto (Jordana Brewster) enjoy family time on the beach with their son, their best friend Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) murmurs, “It’s never goodbye.”But as the lives of the two protagonists, O’Conner and Dominic Toretto, forked off in different directions during their final ride, with O’Conner’s car disappearing within a canyon, Toretto knew it was farewell to his rival and friend. And fans of the series knew it was farewell to both O’Conner and beloved actor Paul Walker.In the middle of filming “Furious 7” in 2013, Walker died in an unrelated car crash at the age of 40 in California. This was a tragic death for an actor who was fascinated with cars and rose to fame in this cherished street-racing series. It isn’t clear yet where the storyline will go in future installments in the franchise without O’Conner.Walker helped conceive the original film when he told director Rob Cohen, “I want to do a movie where I’m racing cars or I’m an undercover cop.” Walker and Cohen combined the two and that’s how The Fast and the Furious came to be, wrote Automobile Magazine ahead of the opening of Fast and Furious 6.He often gave suggestions to maintain the movies’ integrity and credibility. “Being a car guy, I always want things to be more authentic,” he told the magazine.Walker had a large collection of cars in his garage. “Remember the lightweight E36 M3? BMW brought 60 of them to the States, and I have seven of them,” he told Automobile.He owned a race team and drove at speeds often reaching 200 miles (322 km) per hour in daily life, according to an interview with ET online in May, 2013.As O’Conner in the Fast and Furious series, which Walker called a “dream job”, he performed many of his own stunts. O’Conner loses several times to his best friend Toretto in the movies, but Walker, no doubt, was the most skilled driver among the cast.Walker wrote on his Twitter that acting was only something he was doing “on the side”. He was an outdoorsman, ocean addict and had a passion for many other things in life. He was heading for a charity event when he passed away.In his short life, Walker certainly lived up to these words he told ET: “You only live one time – I want to get it all in.”
