From sideline to superstar
Hollywood has kept no secret of its intention to become more appealing to China. From Iron Man 3 (2013), which treats the Chinese audience to an extra four minutes of *footage featuring Chinese actor Wang Xueqi and actress Fan Bingbing, to the upcoming Star Wars: Rogue One, which will star Chinese actors Donnie Yen and Jiang Wen, increasingly we’ve seen more Chinese faces in Hollywood blockbusters.But it’s still too early to jump to the conclusion that Hollywood is no longer “so white”. In fact, if we look at influential directors in Hollywood, only a small proportion of them are of Asian origin, not to mention Chinese.With that in mind, what Justin Lin has achieved is impressive. The 44-year-old director, who was born in Taiwan, has been at the *helm of four Fast & Furious films, including the well-*acclaimed Fast & Furious 6 (2013). He also directed the first two episodes of HBO’s True Detective (2015) and the most recent Star Trek Beyond (in Chinese cinemas from Sept 2).In Beyond, Lin focuses the franchise on how the crew reacts as underdogs in an unfamiliar world when facing unknown enemies. This somewhat reflects Lin’s own life story as an immigrant to the US.He moved to California with his family when he was 8. Similar to other Asian immigrants, he experienced poor treatment growing up. Worse still, he was unable to speak English first arriving in the US.His turning point came after he was sent to a boys’ club playing basketball. Although he sat on the sidelines most of the time, in the season’s last blowout, he finally got to play and managed to make one shot. Then he realized that in the US, you have to seize opportunities and win respect for yourself.Lin’s chance in the film industry came before he’d even graduated from UCLA film school and he managed to hold onto it tight. That was a few years into the 21st century when the global market was becoming more important to Hollywood than the American audience. As Lin recalled to Wired, every production team back then tried to pair white people with “token” minorities. But instead of simply becoming just a ticked box, “Lin has been a genuinely inclusive pioneer, bringing the *cocksure diversity of his *scrappy indie films to the multiplex,” commented Logan Hill of Wired.
