Leo’s big night
When Leonardo DiCaprio stepped onto the stage to accept the Academy Award for Best Actor on Feb 28, he received a rare standing ovation. His friend Kate Winslet watched him from the audience, her fingers crossed for luck, too emotional to hold back her tears.After five acting nominations and 22 years of disappointed hopes since his first nomination (for What’s Eating Gilbert Grape in 1993), the 41-year-old actor finally won his first Oscar for his all-out effort in the survival epic The Revenant. The film will hit Chinese cinemas on March 18.DiCaprio’s career took off when he played the romantic lead in Titanic (1997). That blockbuster could have easily been the high point in any actor’s filmography. Titanic defined DiCaprio as the dream lover for women all around the world and cemented his status as one of the most bankable actors.However, the film also gave him the reputation of being a “pretty boy”. People focused on his face more than his acting. They were even more curious about which supermodel he was dating off-screen.An article on Yahoo! movies analyzed the reasons why DiCaprio had never won an Oscar, saying, “Leo was touted as a heartthrob... Since the huge success of Titanic, he’s had to work extra hard to choose difficult, less showy roles to escape from that preconception of just being a pretty face. It’s the same problem that Tom Cruise and Johnny Depp face.”DiCaprio has a reputation for being one of the pickiest actors in Hollywood. Instead of winning hearts in romantic films or fattening his wallet with blockbuster franchises, he chose to work with more challenging productions.For the role of Hugh Glass, an 1820s fur trapper in The Revenant, DiCaprio endured sub-zero temperatures for seven months. He wore 47 different prosthetics, slept in animal carcasses, and ate a bison liver, even though he’s a vegetarian. For over half the film’s duration, he’s crawling on the ground. An article in Life Week wrote, “Compared with DiCaprio’s miserable experience in The Revenant, Robinson Crusoe’s adventure seems as easy and comfortable as a vacation.”That dedication was recognized by the Academy. Having finally earned the US’ top acting award, the actor is now turning to different pursuits, like producing films.“I think anyone appreciates those types of things, for sure, of course – you know, to be recognized by your peers,” said DiCaprio on the Today show in January. “I know it’s a cliché, but the truth is it’s ultimately not why you do these films. You do them because if you love the art form... I did that piece of work, and I gave it everything I could while I was there.”
