Festival favorites
Some of the cinema’s most daring, artistic work never gets released in ordinary movie theaters. A film may receive top honors at film festivals, but that’s no guarantee that it will reach the general public. Here are three films that earned accolades at this year’s Berlin, Venice and Cannes film festivals, the “Big Three” for cinema lovers.Beasts of No Nation (US)directed by Cary Joji Fukunaga“Hard to watch, impossible to forget.” That’s how the Rolling Stone summed up this grueling war story.Beasts of No Nation is set in an unnamed African country where Agu, a 9-year-old boy, lives a joyful and carefree life. But everything changes when he sees his family slaughtered by army troops invading the village. Taken under the wing of a rebel warlord, Agu is soon trained to be a dehumanized killing machine, but all the while, he dreams of avenging his family.The character of Agu is brought to life by the 14-year-old Ghanaian actor Abraham Attah. His portrait of how “wide-eyed naiveté turns into cold-blooded vengeance” won him the Best Young Actor award at Venice Film Festival.But Beasts of No Nation is not just Agu’s story. It’s also grounded in harsh reality. “Loss of innocence is entirely real for hundreds of thousands of other children across the globe,” says IGN.Carol (US)directed by Todd HaynesSeen as the female version of Brokeback Mountain, the movie Carol depicts a love affair between two American women, Carol Aird (Cate Blanchett) and Therese Belivet (Rooney Mara), in the 1950s.According to Variety, the charm of the film largely lies in the “subterranean delicacy” of Todd Haynes’ directing, as well as the superb acting. It “demonstrates how much swelling emotion it’s possible to transmit on screen without saying a word, while the indifferent world teems on”, commented BuzzFeed.Carol earned actress Rooney Mara a Best Actress award at the Cannes Film Festival. It also won the Queer Palm, a prize given to a Cannes film that deals with LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) issues. Both lead actresses are now competing in the Female Lead category at the upcoming Film Independent Spirit Awards.Though Carol’s story takes place over a half-century ago, the film touches modern issues and appeals to a wide audience. Carol is “a hushed but adamant appreciation of all the people who, in defiance of their times, chose to live true lives, accepting the potential consequences as the cost of, quite simply, freedom”, wrote Vanity Fair.Victoria (Germany)directed by Sebastian SchipperhasThe “long take” has always been an obsession among filmmakers. And in his new film Victoria, German director Sebastian Schipperhas taken this idea to a new level. His two-hour-20-minute movie was filmed in one single shot.The heist thriller follows Victoria (Laia Costa), a young woman from Madrid, as she has a life-altering morning. She meets a group of men in a dance club but later finds herself embroiled in an armed robbery.The production was grueling for Victoria’s cast and crew. Victoria was shot in real time – from 4:30 am onward – in 22 locations on Berlin’s streets. On top of that, all the dialogue was improvised. No mistakes were allowed.The cinematographer in particular faced a tremendous challenge. He had to react to all the improvised acting movements, including the film’s many running scenes. This is why the fluid work of Danish cinematographer Sturla Brandth Grovlen was awarded a Silver Bear at the Berlin Film Festival.But Victoria is more than a mere gimmick. By filming the movie in one single shot, Schipper makes the viewers a part of the story. Audiences witness in real time how the incident escalates.As the film’s synopsis reads, “This film is not a movie; it’s not about a bank robbery. It IS bank robbery.”
