Simpsons keep going
Ever since it was created 30 years ago, The Simpsons, the longest running prime-time TV show in the country, has become part of US life. So when TV critics Alan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz ranked the 100 greatest comedies and dramas broadcast in the US, it came as no surprise that The Simpons was their top choice.This was the show that changed the very concept of cartoons in Western society. Before it appeared, cartoons were considered a way to learn and have fun, not serious adult entertainment. The Simpsons changed this. The genius of the show is that it has something to offer both adults and children.It’s a hugely entertaining program that’s also full of satire and clever humor. A remark by Chitra Ramaswamy in The Guardian gave a sense of the esteem in which The Simpsons is held: “Nothing before or since has matched its capacity to be at once so profoundly clever and so unbelievably stupid.”The show’s creator Matt Groening, and the brilliant team that works with him, make fun of the US government, social customs, and of course, the idea of family life. But unlike most classic US prime-time TV characters, the Simpsons are a dysfunctional family.Bart, the boy, is always in trouble – both at home and at school. That may be in part because of his paternal example. Homer Simpson, perhaps the most iconic character, is a beer-swilling, overweight slob who is normally found in front of the TV. And Marge, Homer’s wife and the mother of the family, spends most of her time cooking, cleaning or trying to fix the messes that Bart and Homer make.The smartest member of the family is daughter Lisa, who excels at school but is no goody-goody – Lisa never misses an opportunity to challenge authority. The youngest member of the family is baby Maggie, who will likely be as much of a handful as her brother and sister when she grows up – if she ever grows up, that is.But although the Simpsons are a problem family, viewers are always on their side. One of the reasons the show has remained so popular all these years is that the characters are so likeable. Millions of us identify with them. They are a working class family struggling to make ends meet. They aren’t perfect, but then, who is? And after 30 years, this is still what strikes a chord with millions of viewers worldwide.
