Far away in space, ‘Gravity’ gets personal
In short, the new sci-fi thriller Gravity is a film that’s set in space and has only two characters. Most of the time, it focuses on only one of them. How exciting could it be?It doesn’t sound promising, but the 90-minute film, as the main character Dr Ryan Stone (Sandra Bullock) says, is “one hell of a ride”.Stone, a NASA engineer who’s on her first voyage into space, is installing a component for the Hubble space telescope. Her guide Matt Kowalsky (George Clooney), a charming and experienced astronaut, loops around her, making small talk with Mission Control back on Earth. The camera pans in director Alfonso Cuaron’s signature long takes, framing Bullock with just the blue orb of the Earth behind her.And that’s just three minutes in.After a cloud of space debris collides with their spacecraft, Stone and Kowalsky are lost in space and have to find a way to save themselves without any help from the folks back at home. From there, director Cuaron crafts an emotional and captivating adventure.“We’ve seen films set in outer space before, sure, but nothing has ever felt this real. No film since 2001: A Space Odyssey in 1968 has captured such a vivid reality outside Earth’s gravitational pull,” a review by The New York Times says. “And no film has so artfully interwoven 3-D technology.”The breathtaking visual effects and accurate technical details allow viewers to experience the weightlessness and vast distances in space, as well as a great connection to the characters as they endure one crisis after another.Look insideOften, the emotional drama can’t quite match the visual effects in such movies, but Gravity deserves equal praise for looking inward at the human heart.“Bullock is an adept and soulful action hero who brings remarkable humanity to an arduous role,” Claudia Pulg wrote in a review for USA Today. “Clooney also is convincing, projecting warmth and ease in an understated performance.”The film’s success in storytelling and character is also recognized in a Forbes’ review: “It’s a carefully crafted emotional journey for a woman whose life has (due to a tragedy in her past) lost purpose or feeling beyond her work. She must confront her loss and fear and regain a desire to live rather than just exist.”Cuaron’s previous film Children of Men (2006) demonstrated such virtuosity that people wondered whether he could top it. With Gravity, the answer seems to be, yes he can.You don’t have to be a sci-fi fan to enjoy Gravity, you just have to love the power of cinema for it to provide an extraordinary experience.
