World of color awakens
Nothing says spring better than perfectly shaped and beautifully hued posies – in their millions.With botanical gardens exploding into color and scent, and towns around the world celebrating their favorite local flowers with festivals, now’s the perfect time to plan a floral excursion.Here we introduce some of the best places to view spring flowers. So put on some spring clothes and go catch a glimpse of the true wonders of the season.Cherry blossoms, JapanThe coming of the cherry blossoms (Sakura) is one of the most exciting events in Japan. Cherry blossoms have a cultural significance in the country. They fall to the ground and disappear in only a couple of weeks (even sooner if the frequent rains wash them off the trees), echoing the Japanese belief in the short, transitory nature of youth and life itself.In a typical cherry blossom festival (ohanami), families and friends gather under flowering trees to enjoy picnics, barbeques and tea ceremonies. Sometimes the festival continues late into the night, with decorative electric lanterns hung in the trees for evening enjoyment. Ohanami at night is called yozakura.When to go: From the end of March to early May when cherry blossoms bloom all over Japan.Daffodils, BritainThe British love daffodils. The joy that these bulbs bring them is demonstrated in the poem I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud by British poet William Wordsworth (1770-1850). As the poet wanders aimlessly, he stumbles across a “host of golden daffodils”. The sight of these flowers “fluttering and dancing in the breeze” has brought pleasure to the poet’s fellow countrymen and -women for centuries.Every year in March, thousands of people across the country flock to daffodil festivals to admire the flower. The biggest daffodil festival in Britain is held in the village of Thriplow in South Cambridgeshire, where the sweeping rows of daffodils paint the entire area a lush yellow.For those who missed this year’s Thriplow Daffodil Festival, which ran from March 15 to 17, the Cotswolds in South Central England are still awash with cheerful yellow.When to go: The first two weeks of April.Tulips, The NetherlandsOne of the best-known flower-place connections has to be the Netherlands and tulips. Tulips were first introduced from Asia in the 17th century, but over the centuries the Dutch have made the flower their own.The country’s Keukenhof Gardens is the largest tulip site in the world, with more than 4 million tulips in 100 varieties covering an area of 32 hectares, according to CNN.The garden opens to visitors between March and May when the flowers reach perfection. On the “Walk of Fame” you can see tulips named after famous people, both non-fictional and fictional, such as Mozart, Ronaldo and even the Lion King.When to go: Keukenhof is open to the public from March 21 to May 20 this year. Its annual Flower Parade will be held on April 20.Plum Blossoms, South KoreaTraditionally one of South Korea’s first spring flower festivals, Gwangyang International Maehwa Festival takes place at Seomijin Village in the city of Daap-myeon, where an 83-acre area is carpeted in white Maehaw flowers, or plum blossoms. The Maehaw, regarded as a symbol of integrity and fidelity in South Korea, also heralds the arrival of spring in the country as the flower is one of the earliest to bloom.When to go: Celebrating its 17th season this year, the Gwangyang International Maehwa Festival goes on from March 23 to March 31.
