‘Get Down’ to New York’s Hip-hop past
It’s a *sweltering night during the middle of a summer heatwave in New York City. A power blackout leads to restless mobs violently *looting and burning stores among poor neighborhoods. Police cars *ascend and the relentless echo of gun-fire and screams *ricochet between the burning buildings.At first glance, you may think that you’re reading about a scene from a new action movie. But these words describe one of the most catastrophic crimes in New York’s history – the blackout of 1977 – showcased in the opening moments of Netflix’s new music-driven drama The Get Down.Directed by Australian icon Baz Luhrmann, known for his visual masterpieces like The Great Gatsby (2013) and Moulin Rouge (2001), The Get Down transports viewers to the birth of hip-hop, in front of the unlikely backdrop of the *disco era.Despite television writers’ long love affairs with pop music, recent highly anticipated musical dramas have hit a *bum note.HBO’S Vinyl (2016), a drama which tried to show viewers the inner workings of the recording industry in the era of David Bowie and Led Zeppelin, was cancelled after its first season, while Showtime’s Roadles (2016), which tells the tale of a fictional rock band, hangs in the balance after critics were hardly screaming for an *encore after the show’s debut.However, The Get Down seems to be an exception, *bucking the trend by receiving glowing reviews from music-loving critics.Compared with Vinyl and Roadies, The Get Down seems to be more successful in capturing the spirit and essence of the era’s musical revolution, showcasing a time when iconic songs of the era – Curtis Mayfield’s Superfly and Vicki Sue Robinson’s Turn the Beat Around – were unleashed upon the world.The Get Down is also one of the rare musical dramas which feature a young cast of black and Latino heritages. And of course, each central character comes with a fascinating back-story of their own.Mylene (Herizen Guardiola) is a church singer who dreams of becoming a disco diva. To make a strong personal statement, she chooses to *subvert her father’s authority by ripping off her robe and belting out disco music in church. “Taking off the robe was symbolic of what’s to come,” Guardiola told The New York Times. “Mylene is someone who felt different, and wanted to get out.”Zeke (Justice Smith), who is Mylene’s lover and a skilled writer, aspires to get his voice heard throughout the city. Then there’s the gifted *graffiti artist Dizzee (Jaden Smith), master DJ Shaolin Fantastic (Shameik Moore of Dope) and siblings and aspiring rappers, Ra-Ra (Skylan Brooks) and Boo Boo (Tremaine Brown Jr). Each character serves a role in the backstory of Hip-Hop’s conception.“Essentially, it’s a timeless story of young kids without many resources who create something out of nothing,” San Juan, The Get Down’s costume designer told the Los Angeles Times.
