GIFs spice up social media
Why bother commenting with a bland exclamation? Or posting the same old emoticons on social media? Liven up your social media game with GIFs, which is short for “graphics interchange format”.GIFs are a pop culture phenomenon. Basically, they are just moving images, looped to play over and over again, for maximum effect. The New York Times even heralded GIFs as a “third language” for messaging.For example, now, every 24 hours, more than 5 million GIFs are sent through Facebook’s messaging app.Thanks to improvements in mobile technology and a surge of messaging applications, GIFs “have become a mainstream form of digital expression, a way to relay complex feelings and thoughts in ways beyond words and even photographs”, said The New York Times.“Young people are driving the GIF because it enhances their online persona,” Topher Chris, US social network Tumblr’s editorial director, told PBS.GIFs serve as a window into US celebrity culture. Popular music and movie stars are appropriated as avatars to convey intense feelings. One popular GIF includes singer-actress Christina Aguilera rolling her eyes and mouthing the words, “Please stop.” Another clip shows singer Taylor Swift wiggling joyously, from her hit single Shake It Off.Across the Pacific in Japan, GIFs help illustrate the cutesy, infantilized world of “moe”, similar to “kawaii” (cute) culture, or later “meng” (萌) in Chinese. Shironeko, the lovably round-faced cat, and Yotsuba, a character from the anime Slice of Life, are among the “meng” characters immortalized as GIFs. These characters are perceived as symbols of youthful naivety in Japan.China also has its own unique brand of GIF. Tuziki (兔斯基), an animation by the Chinese cartoonist Wang Maomao, is one of the many sources of inspiration for Chinese GIFs. Tuziki’s self-deprecating attitudes have proved appealing to Asian, North American and Latin American users on social media.Yat Siu, founder of the Hong Kong-based media company Outblaze points out that GIFs can do what language cannot. They can appeal to our common humanity, without speaking a single word.“Tuziki shows us that … young people of different nationalities share certain values, and cultural boundaries are blurred,” he told the Financial Times.
