DJ beats get party started
Electronic dance music (EDM) is now casting its cheerful magic all over the hot summer, producing many hit songs of the season. But who are the masters of this multi-billion dollar universe? Not the singers, not the record executives, but the DJs.More and more DJs are making their way to the stage from behind the scenes. These tastemakers are dazzling the music industry with the intensity of a stunning laser show, even stealing the spotlight from the pop stars themselves. The following is a roundup of the most high-profile DJs in the world.SkrillexAge: 26Location: Los AngelesStar collaborators: Ellie GouldingAt this point, Skrillex isn’t just an EDM power player, he’s “the genre’s patron saint”, said Billboard magazine.Despite winning six Grammy Awards in two years, the 26-year-old DJ, producer and label chief only released his first full-length album Recess in March. It debuted at No 1 on Billboard’s Dance/Electronic Albums chart. As the founder of OWSLA, he has signed some of the biggest names in EDM, such as Zedd, Porter Robinson and Jack Beats.Plus, his mainstream credibility couldn’t be higher. He landed the cover of Rolling Stone magazine in March, and The New York Times called him “the savior of dance music” in the US. Both his solo concerts and record label crew tour are hot tickets this year.Calvin HarrisAge: 30Location: LondonStar collaborators: Rihanna, Kylie Minogue, Rita OraAnyone who thought DJing wasn’t a lucrative profession should look at Calvin Harris’ case. The Scottish DJ, producer and singer/songwriter was named by Forbes as the highest paid DJ of 2013, with a salary of $46 million (285.56 million yuan).His wildly successful 2012 album 18 Months launched eight top 10 hits in the UK. Harris has also found success crossing over to the realms of pop music, working with the likes of Rihanna (We Found Love) and Ellie Goulding (I Need Your Love). That kind of popularity has him playing headline gigs not only at EDM-focused events like the Electric Daisy Carnival, but also at festivals like Coachella. Harris continues to play regularly in Las Vegas, where he has a multi-year deal at Hakkasan, the US’ biggest nightclub.DiploAge: 35Location: Los AngelesStar collaborators: Beyonce, Jennifer Lopez, Bruno MarsHe’s a Grammy-nominated producer, one of the world’s top DJs (he played 210 gigs in 2013), and a highly visible brand representative (his commercials include BlackBerry and Fiat).Described by Rolling Stone magazine as the “tastemaker’s tastemaker” and “the ultimate sonic curator”, Diplo is talented, savvy and good-looking, with unusually diversified skills and interests.Today he’s one of the most in-demand producers in the game, furnishing beats for everyone from Britney Spears to Justin Bieber. “I don’t know what I’m doing half the time,” he told Rolling Stone. “So when people come to me, they don’t know what they want to sound like — they just want to sound like something from the future.”ZeddAge: 24Location: Los AngelesStar collaborators: Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber, The Black Eyed PeasIf there were a Jay-Z of the EDM world, it would be Skrillex. Like Jay-Z made Rihanna into a superstar, Skrillex guided Zedd to the spotlight. In 2010, Zedd sent a message on MySpace to Skrillex, inviting him to listen to his music. The rest is history.Clarity, the lead single from the Russian-German DJ/producer’s 2012 debut album of the same title, has been certified platinum in the US, selling more than 1.2 million copies, according to USA Today. In the past 12 months, Zedd has played more than 150 shows. Forbes estimates he earned $3.5 million in 2013.He also produced three tracks for Lady Gaga’s album Artpop, and worked with Justin Bieber — cementing his reputation as a go-to producer for major pop acts hungry for EDM-flavored production.
