Top 10 questions for 2010
1. Which team will win the 2010 World Cup?Some fans are already pondering who the 2010 World Cup winner will be. In June 2006, the Italians earned the Jules Rimet Trophy at Berlin’s Olympic Stadium.As the most popular event in sports, the World Cup only comes to us once every four years. Thus, it is no surprise that fans have been talking about their predictions for 2010 since the World Cup draw was revealed on Dec 5, 2009. Spain, Brazil and England are the bookmakers’ favorites to win, although fans and media from other countries tend to think otherwise.2. Will Tiger Woods play golf in 2010?Tiger Woods’s campaign in 2009 seemed to be on the right track after he claimed six wins and bagged more than $1 billion before a freakish car crash happened in late November.Suddenly all of the rumors were let loose about allegations of domestic violence, and mistresses and lovers. After making public apologies and admitting to his infidelity, Woods said he would "take an indefinite break from professional golf". Whether Woods will play in 2010 is still up for question.3. Will Guo Jingjing, China’s diving queen, get married in 2010?Guo Jingjing’s alleged romance with Kenneth Fok, the grandson of late Hong Kong tycoon Henry Fok, has captured the imagination of a country that seems to have become as interested in the private lives of its athletes as in their athletic performances.Although Guo has not given any timetable for her retirement, her announcement at December’s East Asian Games about a possible one-year hiatus is a clear enough signal. From all evidence, her relationship with Fok seems to have entered another stage. Unless they truly believe that the Chinese lunar calendar warns against a "widow’s year" in 2010, we might well see Miss Guo become Mrs Fok.4. Will a post-Copenhagen deal be struck in 2010?Billed as the most important summit to save the earth from global warming before the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012, the Copenhagen Climate Conference carried high expectations.However, after years of scientific research, developed and developing nations are only capable of coming to one agreement: Global warming is real, and it is affecting the earth.5. Will China’s migrant workers get permanent urban residence in 2010?According to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, China’s migrant workers account for around 50 percent of the labor force in industrial and related sectors. Yet they don’t enjoy equal rights as city dwellers because of household registration requirements. Fortunately, the rules are changing. The proposal of China’s Central Economic Conference in early December to give rural residents permanent urban residency sent a strong signal. Premier Wen Jiabao’s call in late December for the reform of the household registration system will surely speed up the process.6. Will China’s one-child policy change in 2010?Many believe the population is no longer a major threat to China’s resources and environment. Instead, China’s population challenges have shifted to low birth rates, an aging society and a widening gender imbalance. China has already experienced a shortage of skilled workers in places like the Pearl River Delta, so it might not be long before we see major reforms.7. Will China’s housing prices peak in 2010?The story of the strong V-shaped recovery of the Chinese economy this year was followed by reports of soaring housing prices in many cities.The central government is aware of the danger of a property bubble that can inflate the national economy or even burst, derailing the ongoing economic recovery. Several policy measures have been announced to cool the red-hot real estate market. Well, how much trust do you place in government policies to control housing prices in 2010?8. Will we witness another global epidemic in 2010?The World Health Organization this year declared H1N1 a global epidemic. Fortunately, it is much less threatening than people previously believed, and newly introduced vaccines seem to have quelled lingering fears.First there was SARS, then the global spread of H5N1 flu and now the H1N1 flu. Globalization is not helping, either. The earth now is truly a village, making it easy for a virus to travel from Beijing to Boston in a matter of hours. Will another epidemic arrive in 2010?9. Will China’s stock market climb back to 6,000 points?Will China’s stock market climb back to the 6,000-point mark it reached two years ago? The stock market was at its most bullish back then, but if you ask the same question now, some would cite a global economy still reeling from a recession.10. Will inflation emerge in China in 2010?China’s consumer price index (CPI), a measure of inflation, rose by 0.6 percent in November, the first year-on-year rise in consumer prices since January 2009. The release of those numbers spurred talk about possible inflation.The government is certainly aware of inflationary pressures, and they have already taken steps to prevent inflation in the real estate market. Some call for more measures such as steps to increase the purchasing power of consumers.
