Movies come first here
Movies and Hollywood. For quite a few people, the two seem to go together like knife and fork. Hollywood movies are the ones that the world wants to watch. They’re the most expensive and the most profitable. They are so dominant that when it comes to “foreign” films, people tend to think they’re from the US.But in reality, many of the world’s nations make fine movies. France’s Cannes Film Festival, held each May, is where international movies get all the attention. The 70th Cannes Film Festival, held from May 17 to 28, hosted movies from France, Germany, China and the UK, but also the works of directors from smaller, poorer nations in Africa and Asia – as well as from the US.But is Cannes just a smaller version of Hollywood’s Oscar Awards? Not at all. For a start, this is a 10-day event, not a single evening. And although there are stars there, Cannes is more than just an opportunity to gaze at beautiful people.Like at the Oscars, awards are handed out. But Cannes is more about film culture than fancy prizes.Each year, for ten days, movies are first and foremost art – things that are valued for more than just how much money they will make for the actors and film studios. The films that win awards there tend to be different to the mainstream Hollywood variety. Often, they’re very focused on the day-to-day lives of ordinary people. They’re dramas of the joys and sorrows, pleasures and pains of everyday existence. Many have a political theme. For example, last year, English director Ken Loach won the top prize for his film I, Daniel Blake. It is a passionate and angry story about an unemployed man’s struggle with government bureaucracy.People often see this quality of Cannes as a reflection of the intellectualism of French culture. It’s said that the French are more prepared to take ideas seriously, to make time for matters that seem to be a little distant from ordinary life. That may or may not be true – after all, we all reflect on life – but there’s no doubt that at Cannes each year, popcorn and glamour take the back seat to the appreciation of cinema as food for the soul.And according to the BBC, there is “a historical romance to Cannes”. It’s the place where the legendary stars were seen, whether that was Elizabeth Taylor or Grace Kelly. “It holds a special place in the imagination of movie lovers everywhere – and that makes it very hard for other festivals to compete. Cannes is part of the mythology of cinema,” wrote the BBC.
