Battle of the furry superheroes
Suddenly, big fat pandas have turned into world-saving superheroes.First, there was Po in the Hollywood *blockbuster Kung Fu Panda. Then there was Pandy in Little Big Panda, a 3D movie co-produced by Germany and China.Pandy, like many other fictional heroes in Chinese culture, is an example of courage, wisdom, *righteousness and absolute conviction. But sadly, in the popularity battle against the *greedy, *goofy Po, he suffered a crushing defeat.It seems that people like their superheroes to come complete with human flaws.“Men and women who are larger than life *repel us. Our deeply *ingrained *egalitarianism makes us *bridle at the notion that anyone is better than everyone else,” wrote Los Angeles Times columnist Gregory Rodriguez in his story “America needs some heroes, flaws and all”. “We tell ourselves, our heroes are weak and flawed, just like the rest of us.”Just like personality flaws, humble beginnings are another thing American people look for in their heroes.“Not only does that *bolster faith in the American Dream, it also helps us believe that, under the right circumstances, we could be just as good as our heroes,” explained Rodriguez.Obviously, there are no humble beginnings in Little Big Panda. In the story, Pandy is born with the gifts of wisdom and courage and is destined to save the endangered pandas.By contrast, Po started as an employee at his *adoptive father’s noodle shop. And he kept *stumbling and suffering rejection after rejection before finally becoming a *fully-fledged kungfu warrior.Some feel that Po’s struggles are a little closer to real life.“As Po discovers his sleeping talents, we too wonder if it is possible for us to follow our passions. Maybe we look like we aren’t good at what we love on the surface, but with a little time and effort we could actually follow our dreams,” said an anonymous American fan of Kung Fu Panda.Two more cartoon charactersAndy PandaThe mischievous panda is one of the most famous cartoon characters by American cartoonist Walter Lantz. Andy Panda fights against “Pygmy Panda Hunters” who want to put him in a zoo. The character was inspired by Su Lin, the first panda brought to the US in 1936 by explorer Ruth Karkness.PannyThe baby panda is a character in the 1972 Japanese animated movie Panda! Go, Panda! created by Hayao Miyazaki. The cute baby panda and his father, break out of a zoo and encounter a girl called Mimiko, with whom they have heartwarming adventures.
