Sun Mi leaves the Wonder Girls
Perhaps the writing was on the wall when the Wonder Girls made a return late last year to Korea, where Sun Mi confessed that she had a miserable time in America, crying almost every single day initially. Although she has since got over that (hopefully), the fact was that she is just only 17 and should really be enjoying a proper education. If maybe, if she was still in Korea now, and not in America, perhaps the decision to leave the Wonder Girls might never have cropped up in the first place.It might look like JYPE has left the door open for Sun Mi’s return by carefully wording it as if she is just taking a temporary leave of absence as she pursue her studies. But with the replacement in 17 year old Hae Lim also mentioned in this already shocking announcement, you wonder…The saddest member would probably be So Hee who has a close relationship with Sun Mi and is affectionately known to many as the Miso couple. So Hee experienced heartache when Hyuna left the Wonder Girls back in 2007 and she has to see another of her same-age friend leave the group.When Hyuna left in mid-2007 and was replaced by Yoo Bin, the Wonder Girls experienced a huge surge of popularity. It remains to be seen whether the new member, Hae Lim can help the Wonder Girls to greater heights again.Whatever it is, the chemistry forged between Sun Mi and the other members over the past 3 years will have to be built up from scratch again.JYP Entertainment has announced that Mimi from the Wonder Girls has decided to postpone her musical career to pursue an academic career.Mimi, the rest of the Wonder Girls members, her family, and JYP Entertainment have collectively decided to postpone her musical career for the time being.JYP Entertainment said, "Mimi had a truly memorable, once in a lifetime experience while living in the U.S. and touring over 50 cities. We support her decision to pursue an academic career at this time. We will also support Mimi if she chooses to return to singing after her academics are complete. In the meantime, she plans to frequent JYP facilities and continue her dance and vocal classes."Mimi will remain with the Wonder Girls in the U.S., continuing with any scheduled performances and activities until the end of February. As of March, she will return to Korea and prepare to focus on her studies. JYP has named 17 year old Lim as the newest member to the quintet. Lim has gone through extensive training at the JYP Academy for three years and is fluent in four languages: English, Korean, Mandarin and Cantonese.We will surely miss our 4-D girl, but stay strong Wonderfuls!
