Who are you fighting for?
Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington) has quit her position as press aide in the White House to set up her own crisis management firm. She handles scandals for clients, most of whom are public figures or belong to the political elite.TV series Scandal sounds like, and to some extent is, another cliched political drama about the bloody power struggles that go on behind the walls of the US Capitol and White House.But when a newly hired amateur lawyer who works for the legendary Pope says “I want to be a gladiator in a suit”, it gives the show another dimension – subordination.Gladiators, although treated like celebrities in Roman times, could not change their subordination to their master. In an era in which materialism prevails, aren’t we also subordinate to our desires, just like slaves? The real question, “what and who are we fighting for”, is often overlooked by political thrillers that put too much focus on complicated schemes and conspiracies.Most of Pope’s clients, unsurprisingly, are subordinate to power, money and fame – but not themselves. They lie to get what they want. In order to cover up a scandal they’re willing to do even more scandalous things.Pope is the person these people turn to when they prepare to put morals and justice aside in order to cling on to what they think is important. And Pope always gets them through the tough times, even if sometimes involves hurting innocent people. Once the job is done she says stylishly into her phone “It’s handled”.But it seems that Pope herself is not subordinate to money, power or fame. She decides whether to take a case or not by looking into her clients’ eyes. This seemingly irrational act serves to indicate her subordination to emotion.It’s never explained why she quit her dream job at the White House. But through the storyline it becomes clear that Pope’s feelings for the president, with whom she had an affair, often clouded her judgment. Ironically this turns our protagonist, who helps others fight off scandals through her judgment, into the subject of a scandal herself.But when Pope is to represent a client who also had an affair with the president, her struggle between reason and emotion eventually reveals the paradox in her own scandal and those of many others.
