Salvage your best intentions
It is August, and summer vacation is half-way over. Yes, it feels like it’s downhill all the way from here.Those perfect summer books are going to go unread, your last-minute plans will go undone, and the optimism you held at the beginning that this season would be different–that this would be the best summer ever–has gone entirely.However, before you become depressed, it is not too late. Let’s list what you meant to do, what you actually did, and suggest how to salvage your good intentions.Vacation at homeIntention: Make a bunch of travel plans.As usual you made a few plans: you were going to visit popular places such as seaside cities, or country towns. Or perhaps you were invited to visit high school friends in other cities.But as things turned out you discovered that plane tickets were too expensive, train tickets were sold out, and friends stood you up.New suggestion: Vow to go nowhere.Making travel plans can give you a headache. Going traveling can make you suffer more. So, lower your expectations.No one claims that summer vacation is incomplete without travel. It’s up to you to decide how you spend your time.Read what comes to handIntention: Track down a summer reading list.You were supposed to get it together and read some good books, or at least read the list that you put together to remind yourself of what you should be reading.New Suggestion: Just read whatever you can lay your hands on.You can take a recommendation from friends, or maybe just go into your favorite local bookstore and buy something of the right size and weight that looks great. Go home, fix yourself a cold drink and read the book. Stay up the whole night to finish it if you want, because it’s summer and you can.Ditch those flip-flopsIntention: Promise to never wear flip-flops again.You decided to wear espadrilles. However, the promise is very likely to be broken when you go buy breakfast in the morning, take a short walk after dinner, or when your parents ask you to take the trash downstairs.New Suggestion: Throw away your flip-flops.They are truly disgusting at this point, and possibly carry a virus, but we still don’t trust you not to wear them. Be strong. Put them in the trash and don’t look back.Anything goes in the summerIntention: Peruse your wardrobe.We told you to buy tank tops and shorts, because you would wear them. How did that go?New Suggestion: Pull out the clothes you haven’t worn and wear them while there’s still time.It is the point in the summer that we call “everything goes”.Not too late for a little romanceIntention: Promise yourself you’ll make that move.This was our nudge to infuse your summer with a bit romance. You were supposed to go for it, ask your crush on a date, work up the nerve to tell that boy or girl what kind of feeling you have for them.New Suggestion: Depends how well the first move went.Repeat: it is not too late for summer romance. If your first fling went badly, you’re probably about ready to jump in the pool again.Timing is nearly everything. Make a plan to hang out with that dear friend you haven’t seen nearly enough (or at all) this summer, before we get into September.You’ve got what it takesIf you have accomplished our list, there’s no way your summer has been so terrible as you imagine it to be. If you feel like you’ve only done a few things, or none, take a deep breath and try harder.Chances are, you’ve got what it takes to make this summer yours, and if you don’t, you really shouldn’t be complaining when school starts.
