Bodyguards and Assassins
OK, enough of those disappointing films we’ve had this holiday. After some people’s negative talk about Zhang Yimou’s A Simple Noodle Story, people seem to feel they need a better reason to pay Hollywood blockbuster (e.g. 2012) prices for a Chinese model. Fortunately, Bodyguards and Assassins has come at the right time.Before it came out, the selling point of this new film by Hong Kong directors Peter Chan and Teddy Chan, reminded us of the recent The Founding of a Republic. It had an all-star cast and a revolution at a turning point in China’s history. But, if it was a dark time just before the founding of the PRC, it’s definitely darker earlier in the 20th century. That’s when China was struggling to rid itself of a feudal monarchy that had been around for more than 2,000 years. And that’s where Bodyguards and Assassins comes in. The story is simple: basically a fight between assassins from the Qing Dynastic court and a few righteous men from different backgrounds who care enough to fight against the old society and risk their lives to protect Sun Yat-sen, who’s returning from Japan to Hong Kong to plan an uprising.To nobody’s surprise, at the beginning audiences were intrigued when the stars appeared. (The couple sitting next to me played that silly game-announcing every star by name whenever they appeared). But in contrast to The Founding of a Republic, which easily distracted the audience all the way through, Bodyguards and Assassins focuses on the story, thereby avoiding the straightjacket of having only the stars on display. The film uses a countdown system to structure the plot: a week before Sun returns, then five days, three days, the night before. That suspenseful method helps develop the story by giving a feeling that "something’s about to happen", but not in a boring way. In each section, the director adds a little something else that pushes the film forward. The first half is quite light-hearted and filled with love between a father and child, loyalty between a master and servant, romance between a young boy and girl, and the lingering feelings of ex-lovers. These allow the director to stir the audience’s emotions later on. In the second half, the emphasis is on the fight. That’s another reason the stars in this film are more than just part of a display. The director gives each actor some room to play properly. The hard-core fighting scenes by kungfu star Donnie Yen are definitely a highlight of the film. Then there’s the Shaolin kungfu of Mengke Bateer, the facile but graceful martial arts of Leon Lai (黎明), and the unprofessional street-fighting skills of Nicholas Tse that add variety to the fight scenes. As the bodyguards die off, a theme gradually emerges: there’s always death and sacrifice on the road to revolution. "To pursue happiness, one has to suffer from pain-and the pain is revolution," Sun, the revolutionary leader, says in a monologue near the end. However, to avoid patriotic clichés and sensationalism, the film skillfully blends in different emotions that appear earlier with the major principle. What’s behind each warrior’s death is, again, love and hope. All the small loves eventually become one big love that supports each of them and keeps them fighting to the end. Hence the vibe that keeps audiences emotionally engaged. Zhang Yimou once said that in making A Simple Noodle Story he really wanted to make the post 80s and 90s generation laugh. Why? Because today’s kids are too cynical to be pleased. For similar reasons, a eulogy for elites and a pile of historical events don’t appear relevant to this generation, born in the era of peace. But a story with love and soul can always touch the heart. That’s what Bodyguards and Assassins delivers. 
