Reach for the stars
After tons of hype, NASA-like secrecy and several elusive trailers, Interstellar, English-American director and producer Christopher Nolan’s latest sci-fi project, blasts off to infinity and beyond, along with this year’s award season hype.Nolan is one of my favorite directors in the industry right now, and not just because he has made the Batman trilogy (2005-2012) and Inception (2010). He is also responsible for keeping the notion of “the original big-budget Hollywood spectacular” alive in an era of reboots and adaptations.In Interstellar, Nolan takes this idea to the extreme. Big, bold and beautiful, Interstellar is a visually and audibly stunning film, with vast expanses of space, huge planets and tiny spaceships floating by to an incredible score from German composer Hans Zimmer.In the near future Earth has been devastated by drought and famine, and humanity is facing extinction. A group of explorers embark on an interstellar voyage into the unknown in search of a planet that can sustain life. Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), the pilot of the crew, must decide between seeing his children again and the future of the human race.So, as you might have guessed, the story is divided into two parts — one that takes place on Earth and another that takes place in space. Much of the outer space photography brings to mind Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron’s Gravity — spectral and spectacular — and even gives you a little bit of cinematic revelation from Stanley Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey. Of course, everything looks so familiar that it feels a bit emulated and lacking in variation.The film is at its strongest when it remains Earthbound (however ironic that may sound for a film about interstellar travel). When the focus is on tragedy — a loving father potentially leaving his children forever with no guarantee that his sacrifice won’t be in vain — Interstellar shows an emotional heft. Even when the film throws out typical sci-fi tropes (the nature of time and space, the place of humanity in the universe) for viewers to think about, Nolan explores these ideas in human terms.“We’ve forgotten who we are. Explorers, pioneers — not caretakers,” says McConaughey’s Cooper in Interstellar. That could be Nolan’s perspective about movies in this timid age of old genres endlessly repeating themselves. He’s the rare filmmaker with the ambition to make such bold statements, and even rarer one with the vision, skill and guts to realize them.
