How to be a woman
Why is feminism a dirty word? Why is motherhood seen as the ultimate goal for every woman? Why are pants getting smaller?In her book, How to be a Woman, feminist Caitlin Moran demands an answer to these questions.The columnist for the British newspaper The Times looks at the problems which still exist for women and why.The book has been hugely popular and has reignited feminist debate.One reason for its success is that it isn’t an academic analysis. Rather, Moran’s own experiences are hilariously used to shed light on why women still struggle for equality.In the book Moran tackles subjects such as high heels, weight, fashion, celebrities, abortion, getting married and having kids.The text acts as a handbook for the life of a modern woman. Moran recognizes that, along with key political issues, what deeply affects women’s lives, is their attitude to themselves, particularly their body image.She writes: “For women, finding a sympathetic, non-judgmental arena is just as important as getting the right to vote.”Her comic approach is the book’s greatest strength and makes it far more accessible to young people than previous feminist texts.Moran says she wants to break down the belief that feminism should be something that’s “good for you, like fiber”.Her approach also helps to rebrand the term. She writes that feminism “should be as exciting as rock ’n’ roll”.Sonia Cala-Lesina, 25, says she used to avoid calling herself a feminist. “I felt quite embarrassed by it, despite being very sympathetic to the underlying politics. Since reading Moran’s book, however, I have described myself as a feminist much more.”The negative connotations connected with feminism are primarily why so many people feel uncomfortable using the term.“I have to prepare to justify myself,” says Cala-Lesina, a personal assistant to a professor in London. “It’s become such a dirty word that people don’t realize that it’s essentially common sense.”Lady Gaga is known for describing herself as a feminist and Moran sees her as an excellent role model.When Gaga’s debut album came out she fought her record company, who wanted to put a borderline soft-porn image of her on the cover.She defies expectations of what a woman should look like.Moran writes: “I think it’s going to be very difficult to oppress a generation of teenage girls who’ve grown up with a liberal, literate, bisexual pop star who shoots fireworks out of her bra and was listed as Forbes magazine’s seventh most Powerful Celebrity in the World.”For a book that discusses so intimately the experiences of being a woman it could potentially alienate men, but it hasn’t.The book has been massively popular with both sexes, because feminism is not a gender specific issue. For example, men and women alike are affected by lack of access to affordable childcare. “I enjoyed the book,” says John Foster, 26, a freelance tour manager from London. “Mostly because it’s incredibly funny.”Cala-Lesina says it’s exciting that the book is so mainstream.“A lot of people who have never thought about feminism, or ever read about it, will be introduced to the concept,” she says.Popular feminism may only be beginning to gather pace once again. But with women still struggling for equality in the UK 93 years after gaining the right to vote, it is time for the stirrings to become a thunderstorm.
