Vampires ditch cape for 'cool'
VAMPIRES, we know by now, are allergic to the sun, enjoy a liquid-only diet and cannot stand to see themselves in the mirror. But in recent films and fiction, such as the Twilight series, they have shed their dark capes and castles for an existence more or less like our own.For those who are worried about the fate of Bella Swan, Edward Cullen and Jacob Black in the Twilight series, the third installment, The Twilight Saga: Eclipse, is back with all of the lethal and loving bite it was meant to have. The kiss of the vampire is cooler, the werewolf is sexier, and Bella sorts through all of her "who do you love?" conflicts with even more passion than before. Because of all this, the new film sometimes seems more like the story of a love triangle among beautiful teenagers. Before the current crop of "undercover" vampires, the creatures were always portrayed as being more mysterious. Back to the 1930s, for example, in the movie Dracula (1931), Count Dracula, the vampire, was a sophisticated European nobleman. He was sensual, exotic, and, of course, he wore a dark cape and spoke with an accent. Vampires became more daring, sexual, interactive and even friendly to people in Blood for Dracula (1974). Still, though, they retained their old-school Eurotrash look.Today vampires have moved into the neighborhood. "The vampire next door" image is having a big cultural moment with popular films and TV series, such as Twilight and True Blood. They look no different from ordinary people - only sexier, thus often finding themselves in romantic relationships with heroines.There’s an infrastructure in the world that caters to vampires, thus they can increasingly be "out of the closet" in today’s fictional entertainment. They are accepted and can be honest about who they are-sometimes even a bit cocky. Like what Jacob said to Edward when trying to win Bella over: "Well, I am hotter than you." Blood-suckers we have known and lovedTHE depiction of vampires in films and TV shows has evolved over the years. Which vampire look appeals to you most? refinedBrad Pitt and Tom Cruise as Louis de Pointe du Lac and Lestat de Lioncourt Interview with the Vampire: The Vampire Chronicles (1994)The two refined and noble socialites were the hottest vampires of the 1990s. Lestat is known for his boldness, enthusiasm and defiance. Louis enjoys the finer things in life, including music, acting and fashion. But they share a charming tenderness. They became the template for all culturally-relevant vampires that followed them.sexyStephen Moyer and Alexander Skarsgard as Bill Compton and Eric Northman True Blood (2008-present)Besides being masculine and sexy (and frequently shirtless), both vampires have excellent manners and are attentive to woman’s needs. While dark-haired Bill exudes genteel values, Eric thrills with bad-boy mystique. Their battle for control of heroine Sookie Stackhouse has not only fueled the show but also polarized fans into two camps.amiableRobert Pattinson as Edward CullenTwilight (2008-present)Although he has alabaster skin, unkempt hair and a lanky frame, Edward Cullen might still be the most approachable vampire to date. Robert Pattinson masters the portrayal of a vampire who is kind and amiable, like a boy next door who can play the piano - and who has 100 years of wisdom packed into his 17-year-old brain.badassIan Somerhalder as Damon Salvatore The Vampire Diaries (2009-present)The older, evil Salvatore character has impressed more than his younger, more introspective brother, Stefan Salvatore. Lots of female fans are totally smitten with the villain-not because of his well-defined face and masculine body, but because of his badass qualities. He proves that "ladies don’t always fancy the nice guy".
