Celebrity access
The micro blog has become another classroom for Zhai Langwei, and the teachers are all big names in academia.Zhai discussed with Lu Gusun the possible English translation of “literary young women” in Chinese. Lu is the chief editor of The English-Chinese Dictionary, a popular dictionary printed by the Shanghai Translation Publishing House.Zhai is interested in zoology as well. He filled in a quiz from a zoologist of the Science Squirrels Club. He got full marks and the expert’s attention.“The feedback from great scholars has encouraged me to follow my interests,” said the 21-year-old student majoring in English at Guangdong University of Foreign Studies.“I naturally work harder, hoping to win more feedback from scholars by showing them my research results,” said Zhai.Zhai is one of hundreds of millions of micro blog users in China. According to China Internet Network Information Center, by the end of June 2010, 72.3 percent of micro blog users were college students.The information on micro blogs is short and sweet, and it can be spread by being forwarded by one user after another. This may be partly the reason why, with the help of micro blogs, students are able to interact with celebrities.Lu Huiquan, 21, is a student majoring in English at Remin University of China. He has some celebrity fans on his Sina Weibo. “With my micro blog being forwarded, I have a bigger chance to let famous people see my opinions,” Lu explained. “And it doesn’t take much time and effort for them to read and reply.”More and more students like Lu have started reaching out to great minds for interaction on micro blogs.Students from Guangdong University of Business Studies started an online poll in April on how micro blogs influence college students.The results show that 14.87 percent of the 293 respondents (by November 15) use micro blogs mainly to communicate with well-known people.Micro blog’s function as a helpful tool for students to broaden their horizons and learn new things, said 36.86 percent of respondents.But for Zhai, it’s more important to learn about the great minds’ modesty and rigorous scholarship.For example, when discussing things with his fans on the micro blog, Lu Gusun will patiently explain the historical and cultural background of a phrase. He will also revise his translation based on fans’ suggestions.Zhai said: “This is why a scholar achieves a lot. No matter how many biographies I read about a scholar, it can’t compare to communicating with them.”And you can actually go a step further and get face-to-face interaction with celebrities.With the help of micro blogs, college students are now able to invite big stars to their schools to give speeches.Liu Yu, 22, is a student majoring in statistics at the United International College of Beijing Normal University and Hong Kong Baptist University (UIC), in Zhuhai.Liu and his schoolmates accidentally discovered that Joe Huang, a Chinese comedian living in the US, gave it away that Huang wouldhas a Sina Weibo account. And the latest tweet come to China in October.So Liu and his schoolmates quickly designed an eye-catching poster for Huang’s campus talk. He posted the poster and the invitation on his school’s micro blog account and tag Huang by adding “@Joe Huang” to the tweet.The invitation was forwarded more than 500 times in 20 hours, which means Huang would see his name tagged over 500 times.Liu is excited that Huang has accepted the invitation. “Isn’t it wonderful that every student now has the chance to invite their favorite figures to the school?” said Liu. “Famous figures are no longer distant. Their campus visits will add spice to college life.”
