40 days of love bring clarity
Two friends. She is a hopeless romantic who jumps into relationships quickly. He is afraid of commitment and tends to date many women at the same time.What would happen if the two decided to be together as a couple — for 40 days?Sound like the plot from a Hollywood movie? Actually, it’s a real-life experiment carried out by two young people in New York City.Jessica Walsh, 26, is a partner at a design firm. Timothy Goodman, 32, is an independent designer and illustrator. The two have been close platonic friends since 2008. While on a trip to Miami last year — Goodman was seeing several people at the time and Walsh was heartbroken over a breakup — they thought it might be interesting to confront their own relationship issues by analyzing their behavior while dating each other.Why 40 days? The explanation can be found on their website FortyDaysOfDating.com: “It’s been said that it takes 40 days to change a bad habit. In an attempt to explore and hopefully overcome their fears and inadequacies, Tim and Jessica will go through the motions of a relationship for the next 40 days: the commitment, time, companionship, joys and frustrations.”Although they were certain both of them would learn something from the project, they had mixed feelings about how it would end: Would they fall in love with each other and have a real, serious relationship? And if that was not the case, could they still be friends?They started the project in March, but Walsh and Goodman only began uploading regular posts on July 10 after their experiment had ended.Their website is attracting between 200,000 to 300,000 visitors every day, according to Canadian newspaper The Globe and Mail. It’s not only because the two write well, the website itself is a piece of design artwork, including graphic illustrations, photos, and embedded videos.“We have no idea if [the project] will inspire other people, but we would highly recommend it,” the pair said in an e-mail to The Huffington Post. “The experiment and the self-examination was very insightful. We came out learning an incredible amount about ourselves, and have both made positive changes in our lives. It’s important that we all find some time to work or reflect on our habits and fears.”Walsh and Goodman are keeping it a secret of what happened after the project ended. But in an interview with CNN, Goodman said: “I will say that I feel forever linked to her. I have this kinship with her because of it, regardless of what happened or if we’re together or we’re not.”
