African music for World Cup fans
“Tsamina mina, zangalewa,” sings Colombian pop superstar Shakira, “because this is Africa.” She sings in an African language called Fang, asking, “Who asked you to come?” This is the official song of the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, and it is titled Waka Waka (This Time for Africa).Shakira has quite a bit of experience singing for the World Cup; her song Hips Don’t Lie was the official song of the 2006 World Cup in Berlin, Germany. Waka Waka, meanwhile, is based on a 1986 song from Cameroon titled Zangalewa. She recorded it with the popular South African band Freshlyground.However, some South Africans are expressing disappointment that a native African is not performing this year’s World Cup song. South African talk show host Jenny Crwys-Williams commented: “South Africans are just coming together as South Africans and saying, damn it, we’ve got our own people and it’s an African World Cup. It’s ours; it belongs to us. So why don’t we use some of the magnificent talent that we’ve actually got?”For her part, Shakira professes her love for African music, saying, “African music is so inspiring and is poised to take its place on the global pop culture stage.” Waka Waka features many musical elements that can be traced back to traditional African music.Musical heritageAfrica is a large continent filled with many different cultures and types of music, making it difficult to talk about one single kind of “African music”. However, there are certain stylistic touches one can look for.One of these elements featured in Waka Waka is the call-and-response. In call-and-response, the lead vocalist sings a line, and waits for the other musicians, chorus, and/or audience to sing back. This kind of musical participation gives a lot of African music a back-and-forth, public feeling to it. It can also be heard in many Western musical styles descended from Africa, such as blues, jazz, and hip-hop.In turn, these genres have come back to Africa and are playing a major part in African music. The strong rhythms and complex melodies of these styles have filtered back into modern African pop music, and many bands, such as Freshlyground, claim jazz and blues artists as influences on their music.Such influences can be heard in Waka Waka. Because of it, perhaps the song is not just an African song, but also a global one. Some South Africans agree. Said local music fan Heidi Botes to Crwys-Williams: “I think that it’s great that there are a lot of artists [contributing to the song]; it unites the world. The soccer World Cup is not just about South Africa, it’s about…the world.”
