Angry Birds flock to Halloween
In just a few days, millions of Americans will gather to observe a ritual that some have been anticipating all year. They will garb themselves in garments inspired by their favorite characters and go knocking on doors.We are, of course, talking about Halloween, a holiday that will be celebrated by more than 160 million Americans, according to the US National Retail Federation (NRF). It also predicts that almost $7 billion (around 45 billion yuan) will be spent on merchandise, $1.2 billion of that for costumes.Usually, costumes reflect pop-culture trends. So, what are this year’s trends for Halloween costumes? The following are some of the top-selling looks, according to costume retailers in the US.Video game-themed costumesThe constant evolution of video game graphics has opened the door to many Halloween costumes. This year, the obsession of the touch-screen game Angry Bird will undoubtedly translate into millions of sightings of the popular round red and black and triangular yellow birds on Halloween. According to Tom Fallenstein, chief executive of Halloweencostumes.com, as of early October, the costume retailer has sold most of its Angry Bird costumes.Film/TV-inspired costumesSuccessful films of 2011 have bought countless iconic costumes that are being replicated for this year’s Halloween. For example, as the film adaptation of the Harry Potter series ends, fans are choosing to dress as the main stars, or even as the evil Death Eaters. Other popular movie costumes include Transformers and Captain America.Consumers continue to be fascinated by the walking dead–and this year it’s not about vampires. More than 2.6 million people plan to dress as zombies this year, according to the NRF’s 2011 top costumes survey. They’re inspired by popular TV series such as The Walking Dead.Music star costumesMove over Lady Gaga. There are some new blue-haired songstresses taking over this Halloween. It’s hard to resist Katy Perry’s catchy California Gurls and Nicki Minaj’s slightly deranged rapping in Super Bass, but it’s their sexy and chic style that has made them firm favorites for Halloween.Royal wedding and crew costumesThe obsession with all things British that started with the royal wedding earlier this year continues. Retailers such as Headlinecostumes.com are selling the Prince Charming costume, the octopus-like Princess Beatrice hat and the Kate Middleton wig for those who aspire to look like the members of the royal family.
