Family of Spies
In 1990, US writer Joe Weisberg was asked to join the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). At that time, Weisberg intended only to be a spy. But after two decades out of the CIA, he reentered his former world with FX’s The Americans as a producer.The espionage series is set in the 1980s when the US and the former Soviet Union were embroiled in the Cold War. It revolves around two Soviet security agency spies, Elizabeth (Keri Russell) and Philip Jennings (Matthew Rhys), who pretend to be a US couple with their unwitting children in the northern Virginia suburbs while secretly helping the Soviets infiltrate the US. Their neighbor, Stan Beeman (Naoh Emmerich), happens to be an FBI counterintelligence agent who is trying to unmask foreign spies.Weisberg’s four years’ experience serving for the CIA, what he learned in his training, and what he heard from other spies helped him make this story more convincing. In every episode, your heart will be in your throat as the couple courts danger in order to complete their mission.Espionage isn’t a new television genre. What makes The Americans stands out is that the creator brought a focus on family and relationships. Having pretended to be a married couple for a long time, Elizabeth and Jennings struggle with conflicting feelings for each other.“The Americans is at its core a marriage story. International relations is just an allegory for human relations. Sometimes, when you’re struggling in your marriage or with your kid, it feels like life or death. For Philip and Elizabeth, it often is,” Weisberg told Slate online magazine.Before The Americans, most spies and agents on screen were cold, as they invested more energy and time into their job with little attention being paid to their family. For example, because of his vocation, 24’s Jack Bauer lost his wife and had a tumultuous relationship with his daughter.On Jan 28, the third season of The Americans opened with frictions escalating between the couple as pressures from their job increased and they faced the toughest decision ever: whether to reveal their true nature to their kids and whether to let their 14-year-old daughter Paige become a spy. I believe the Paige dilemma is sure to push the series to a new climax.
