Where will you escape?
Attention, travel lovers. You may not have made any travel plans yet, but the choices for next year’s best destinations are already out. Recently, the well-known travel guide publisher Lonely Planet issued its Best in Travel 2014 selection. Here, we pick a few countries from its top 10 list to give you a taste.No matter whether you’re looking for big international events, delicious food, natural wonders or simply relaxation on a beach, these places should be on your checklist.BrazilRank: 1Attractions: Festivities for the 2014 World CupThe world is casting its eye on Brazil for hosting two of the most coveted sporting events — the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the Summer Olympics two years after. Except for watching exciting games and cheering for your favorite team and players, you can also take a trip to “the lungs of the earth”, the Amazon forest, to escape the crowds and embrace nature. Either way, Brazil is sure to leave you with an unforgettable memory.AntarcticRank: 2Attraction: The adventure of a lifetimeBored with your day-to-day life? It’s time to go on an adventure and refresh yourself! The Antarctic is undoubtedly a good choice. Watching native penguins playing and seeing millions of seabirds flying across the sky is much more exciting than watching TV documentaries. Imagine how cool and fascinating it is to be in a world of majestic icebergs and unexplored mountain ranges. But remember, it’s a polar region, so prepare well before you set off. Insulated boots, warm coats, gloves, wool socks and hats are a must.SwedenRank: 4Attractions: Food, culture and scary storiesMost people’s impression of Sweden is that it’s cold, gloomy and beautiful. But that’s not the whole story. As the largest Scandinavian country with a small population, it’s a paradise for people who hate crowds and love their peace and quiet. It’s the perfect setting in which to enjoy the country’s local delicacies, such as fresh seafood, berries, and regional cheeses.SeychellesRank: 7Attractions: Paradise within reach.This so-called “playground for millionaires” is now open to everyone. The wallet-friendly hotels, guesthouses and self-catering apartments make tours affordable. With more than 100 divine islands scattered on the Indian ocean, many activities await, such as sunbathing, fishing, diving, sailing, and going on boat tours. The Seychelles islands are blessed with a warm tropical climate all year round, so you can go there whenever you want.BelgiumRank: 8Attractions: Europe’s underrated gem.Many grand and spectacular museums are located in picturesque cities like Bruges, Antwerp and Brussels. Art lovers can fully engage themselves in the numerous treasures dating back to the medieval period. Exploring the quiet towns and appreciating their Gothic architecture is also an opportunity not to be missed. As the hometown of the world’s best beers, chocolates and fries, everyone can be a gourmet here. With the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of World War I approaching, Belgium is set to draw many tourists in the coming years.
