Let down by lectures
Having stood for 50 minutes on the bumping bus, Geng Dongdong finally arrived at the bookstore where Bai Yansong, a famous anchorman, gave his lecture. The lecture enlightened the 20-year-old college freshman on the pursuit of happiness.“If only more of such inspirational lectures were available to college students and were held on campus,” said Geng, majoring in automation at Lanzhou University of Technology. As a student thirsty for knowledge, Geng is disappointed that only one or two lectures are held on campus every week. But galas and competitions are all over the campus. “Galas and competitions offer us a stage to show our talents in sports and entertainment. But we still need lectures to broaden our knowledge,” said Geng. Xiong Bingqi, deputy director of the Beijing-based 21 Century Education Research Institute, agreed that lectures are an important supplement to students’ professional studies. “Through attending lectures, students are exposed to a variety of ideas and opinions,” said Xiong. “They think and discuss the issues and thus improve their  critical thinking ability.”Besides being few and far between, campus lectures also fail to meet students’ expectations in terms of quality.Zhang Ang, 20, a freshman in Chinese literature at Zhejiang Sci-tech University, is bored by lectures teaching examination skills for college English tests and by those  preaching clichéd notions about life-planning. What’s worse, those lectures about examinations turned out to be promoting English study products.Zhang wants her school to invite experts to explain current affairs to them, for example, the war in Libya. She finds that it’s difficult for college students to understand and analyze topical issues on their own if they are not studying related majors.Shi Dongxiao, 21, a junior in journalism at Wuhan University, wants the same thing. But he was let down by lecturers who pieced together information available online and gave a shallow introduction. “I’m expecting in-depth investigation and the lecturer’s own point of view,” said Shi.Like many of her peers, Zhang admitted that she had a thing about celebrity lectures. But the problem is that some celebrity lecturers charge high fees, as much as hundreds of thousands of yuan. Without much financial support from the school, student organizers of campus lectures are forced to give up plans to invite popular celebrity lecturers.Colleges are non-profit organizations. It’s impossible for schools to afford high fees for celebrity lecturers. “Some celebrities need to distinguish campus lectures from  profitable ones,” said Chen Tiling, director of the student affairs office at Wenzhou University. “They should have the sense of social responsibility to offer college students help with their knowledge free of charge.”However, Xiong Bingqi also advises students to get rid of the craze for star lecturers. In his opinion, a good lecture doesn’t necessarily come from a celebrity. The stories of a migrant worker can also be inspirational.“Campus lectures are not the platform for ‘ elites’ only, but the stage for people from diversified cultures and professions to voice their opinions to inspire college students,” said Xiong.
