Dads duke it out with kids
Season two of Where Are We Going, Dad? , a reality show on Hunan TV, is even more fun and colorful than the first — not just because of new cast members (Gary Chaw brings in his two children). But thanks to a cast with more distinct and diverse personalities, we’ve been able to watch different kinds of father-son/daughter relationships unfold. This time around we see the families at their most adorable and awkward moments.Which pair is your favorite? Even if you don’t watch the show, read our descriptions of their personalities and chemistry to get familiar and maybe build up some vocabulary.Dad: Huang Lei, 43Daughter: Huang Yici (Duo Duo), 8Huang Lei, among his many occupations — actor, director, singer and lecturer — is also a devoted farther. He couldn’t be more patient when it comes to taking care of his daughter Duo Duo and chastising her for trivial slipups. Huang surely makes parenting seem easy, but he has his daughter to thank for that. As the oldest kid in the show, Duo Duo is smart, thoughtful and wise beyond her years. Together, they’re the pair with the most positive energy on the show.Dad: Lu Yi, 38Daughter: Lu Yuxuan (Bei’r), 5As one of the most stylish fathers in the show, actor Lu Yi certainly knows how to look sharp. We often see him wearing chic clothes, snazzy accessories and matching outfits with his daughter Bei’r. But as for being a dad, we can sense how insecure and overwhelmed he can feel sometimes on the show. Fortunately, Bei’r is an obedient and cheerful child who behaves well. This pair has more of a besties relationship — and they always show up in style.Dad: Francis Ng, 53Son: Feynman Ng, 5These two have the traditional father-son relationship, where the father is serious and commanding and the son is tamed by merely a glance. But “a tough man with a tender heart” is the best way to describe this actor from Hong Kong, especially when we see him giving Feynman encouragement and support. Feynman doesn’t disappoint either. He’s a strong and independent boy who always tries to be manly by holding back his tears in front of the camera.Dad: Yang Wei, 34Son: Yang Wenchang (Yang Yangyang), 4As a father, the former world champion gymnast isn’t as fierce and powerful as he was in competition. We’re not saying that’s a bad thing — at least Yang has showed us his soft, patient and quiet side. Yang’s good life skills make it quite easy for him to look after his son on his own. Yang Yangyang, on the other hand, is a perfect example of the saying “like father, like son”. The introverted boy wins our hearts with his purity and innocence.Dad: Gary Chaw, 34Son: Joe Chaw, 5Daughter: Grace Chaw, 3Finally, this is the most dramatic troupe on the show. Malaysian singer Gary Chaw may not be that great at parenting, but he certainly knows how to identify with his children. Joe and Grace, meanwhile, are a godsend. The angelic brother and sister are sweet, bright and adorable. We watch the three cycle through their emotions, with even Gary Chaw tearing up a few times. But this is what family is for: Family laughs together, cries together and shares with each other their most memorable moments.
