Love shines through
“If the one ever appeared, anyone else would just be a compromise. But I don’t want to compromise.” This line has become the talk of the town since TV drama My Sunshine debuted on Jan 10. It has become an instant hit, with the premiere episode reaching a record 104 million online views by the end of the day.Many fans follow the series because of all the pretty faces, especially stunner Tiffany Tang, 31, and the well-dressed Wallace Chung, 40. However, the show’s success is also due to the tremendous fan base its original Web novel Silent Separation has accumulated since 2003. The novel started a craze as soon as writer Gu Man published the first chapter online.The story is about two sweethearts that separate and are given a second chance. Zhao Mosheng and He Yichen fall in love in college but separate due to misunderstandings. Seven years later, fate tosses them together again. They work hard to resolve their misunderstandings and, in the end, become happily married.The TV drama attracts me not only because it stays true to the novel, but also because it depicts my ideal romance. Whether they admit it or not, every woman dreams of having a handsome man chase after them exclusively. Well, He Yichen is just that. As one of the top lawyers in China, he is cute, competent, rational and rich. But after getting married, the seemingly cold lawyer gives Zhao a dream wedding, cooks for her, picks her up after work and protects her anytime she needs it － almost everything a dream husband should do.Also, what makes the TV drama stand out among so many counterparts is the experiential proximity it creates for the audience. The love between the main couple is touching but not overstated. It is not only a fantasy or a daydream that takes the audience away but also an experience that can occur in our daily lives.My Sunshine is a success, at least for me. It maintains the beauty of the novel, adds cute faces to create a feast for the eyes, satisfies many girls’ fantasies about love, and most importantly, encourages all of us to seize every available opportunity to embrace happiness.
