Big monsters with a long history
When it first aired in Japan in 1966, the Ultraman TV series was a hit – despite its *cheesy performances and cliched storylines, which involved men in *spandex suits fighting hokey-looking monsters. The series created an outlet for kids to *fantasize about being a superhero or maybe even one of the mighty kaijus, which means “strange beasts” in Japanese.July 7 marks the 50th anniversary of the series’ creation. But it’s not just Ultraman rekindling fans’ *nostalgia. Other kaijus are making a comeback too.There has long been a fascination with kaijus in Japanese culture. There isn’t even an equivalent word in English for kaiju. The word “monster” can refer to anything that is inhuman, including the bloodthirsty *extraterrestrials in Alien and the highly intelligent great white shark in Jaws. Yet none of these characters would be considered a kaiju.No matter what form it takes, a kaiju is best identified by its size: These creatures are large enough to destroy entire cities.One possible explanation for the kaiju *craze is that these super-sized monsters give Japan a way of fictionalizing its history with natural disasters. Earthquakes, volcanoes, *tsunamis and typhoons have not only affected Japan’s environment but also the mentality of its people. As a result, the kaijus that appear in literature and pop culture are seen as “a mythic *personification of natural destructive forces”, American writer Patrick Macias told the BBC.Just look at Godzilla, one of the most classic kaiju characters in Japanese culture. “He’s a dragon-cum-dinosaur after all, not a human being or even a creature with recognizable emotions [like] King Kong,” said Macias. “So there’s a spark of the *divine there, the ‘God’ in Godzilla, if you will; indifferent to the ant-like humans that inhabit this planet, [he] can easily become *wrathful or a bringer of death.”Kaiju *lore also draws from a national trauma unique to Japan: It is the only country on Earth to have experienced atomic bombing. Considering that the first Godzilla film was released back in 1954, when the nuclear bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were still fresh in the Japanese consciousness, many people see Godzilla as a symbol of nuclear weapons. This mindset was proved to be still very much alive after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear power plant accident.“In the days immediately after the Fukushima disaster in 2011, Google hits on Godzilla *spiked,” William Tsutsui, an American historian and Japan expert, told The Telegraph. “People went back to look at the movies, and look at the lessons filmmakers had been bringing forward about the fears of *untrammeled nuclear energy and weapons testing.”
