A second life
There have been lots of resilient and optimistic female characters in TV series, but Kimmy Schmidt is a little different.Kimmy (Ellie Kemper), the plucky go-getter in seven-times Emmy-nominated US comedy Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, was once locked away in a bunker along with three other women in a strange cult trying to survive a nuclear holocaust. Fifteen years later, the quartet emerge to find a world not turned to ashes, but into something they never imagined.The first few episodes cover all the easy jokes that come with any time travel series. Kimmy doesn’t know what a selfie is. She is clueless about social networking. She cannot even tell the difference between cameras and phones. And, naturally, her acting like a 1990s-generation middle schooler in this new world is a constant source of comic relief.But this affecting sitcom doesn’t simply intend to make you laugh.After their rescue, Kimmy and the other three women become famous overnight, winning the hearts (and financial backing) of sympathizers nationwide.Not content to simply take advantage of being one of the so-called “Indiana Mole Women” like her fellow victims, Kimmy decides to hide her real identity and make a fresh start in Manhattan, where no one sees her as damaged goods.You can imagine Kimmy endured unnerving hardships underground, and the show slowly confirms this through her recollections and conversations with others. But she never looks wrecked. Quite the opposite: She’s chipper and possesses an indomitable sunniness.The unstoppable young woman not only helps herself, but also pushes those around her to be the best they can be.She encourages her broke roommate, a new spin on the gay-best-friend stock character, to pursue his lost dream. Disheartened by the women in a cosmetic surgery clinic waiting room, she tells them: “Changing your outside isn’t going to fix what’s wrong inside. We’re just covering up our problems in order to fix ourselves. You have to start right here to find that small unbreakable you inside yourself.”We all know the seemingly perfect heroine is kind of out of date, and the scriptwriter is well aware of this, too.She isn’t some idealized Mary Sue getting everything she wants simply for having an upbeat outlook. Her fairytale-like romance with a young man she doesn’t realize his wealthy ends unhappily, showing Kimmy is still at risk of falling prey to failure.At her core, Kimmy is a bright and buoyant woman, but not so much that she can’t be down-to-earth. This makes her an underdog worth paying attention to.
