Top 10 entertainment events in 2010
6. Top diva’s comebackBeing away from the spotlight for six years, China’s top diva Faye Wong returned to the stage with 10 concerts in Beijing, Shanghai and other metropolises. Wong’s comeback injected exuberant vitality to the tepid pop concert market, even stirring widespread complaints among her fans for the scarcity of concert tickets. As the most famous singer on China’s contemporary pop scene, Wong combines alternative styles, influenced by the Scottish group Cocteau Twins, with more traditional Chinese lyrical ballads. A prosperous box office and ticket demand revealed no sign of a decline in popularity, her iconic influence never faded in the capricious and constantly updating entertainment industry. Although her voice isn’t that clear as before, Wong’s legendary musical career would guarantee her name appears on the page of China’s pop music history.7. Car model’s sex photosA Beijing car model known as "Shoushou" (The Beast) was embroiled in scandal after her ex-boyfriend released online a video of them having sex. Many accused the 23-year-old of exploiting the video to boost her career. Confronted with the accusation, Zhai (her real name) resolutely denied it during an interview with China Daily: "I believe there is not a woman in the world who would truly like to ruin her life-long reputation for commercial exploitation.” Undeniably this scandal made her better known, but Zhai had to taste the bitterness of fame.8. Crosstalk performer’s violence scandalCrosstalk performer Guo Degang, popular across the nation for his standup comedy show that assails the vices of the times, landed in hot water after one of his apprentices beat up a TV reporter who was trying to interview the celebrity at his residence. This incident was a PR disaster for Guo, who was forced to cancel a number of performances and also raised the awareness for better protection for journalists’ rights.9. Love revengeAward-winning film director Yan Po was brutally stabbed by premeditated attackers in a parking lot, resulting in bone fractures and a severed Achilles tendon. Yan’s girlfriend, actress Li Xiaoran, appeared at the Chaoyang district police station in Beijing and publicly admitted their relationship for the first time. Subsequently, eight of the suspects were caught by police and two alleged organizers surrendered themselves to police. They claimed to have arranged the attack to punish Yan for dating Li, former girlfriend of their friend.10. Cohabit rumourAn explosive rumor that 29-year-old Fan Bingbing, a famous beauty, and 64-year-old Wang Xueqi, an award-winning veteran, were dating swirled around cyberspace, causing a big stir among the public. It turned out to be false and both of the thespians vehemently denied the gossip, initiating legal proceedings against the rumormongers.
