A creative season
Chen Bolin is not an industrious actor. In the past, he would only grace the big screen once or twice a year, if at all. He even disappeared from showbiz for a whole year.But the end of 2015 marks a period of incredible productivity for Chen. In the span of two months, the Taiwanese actor has four films debuting in cinemas.He showcases hidden talents in Surprise (《万万没想到》), challenges himself with acrobatic action in Bad Guys Always Die (《坏蛋必须死》), returns to his familiar role as a heartthrob in Go Lala Go 2 (《杜拉拉追婚记》) and portrays three distinct roles in the literary film Distance (《再见，在也不见》).In the movie industry, it’s generally not a good idea for an actor to introduce four disparate characters to viewers in a short amount of time. It leaves little time for audiences to digest each character and appreciate the actor in each role.But Chen said he wasn’t considering showbiz strategy. He was just following his gut as he picked scripts. “For actors, no rules might be the best rule,” he said to Popular Movies. “A film consists of random sequences. To come across a script, pick up a role, cooperate with someone, all of that depends on fate. If I have to make a rule, I would choose to work together with people who can eat a meal happily together. Otherwise, how can we get along well enough to produce a good film?”Chen entered the film industry through a stroke of luck. One summer, when he was 18, he was meandering in Taipei when a self-proclaimed director stopped him and invited him to shoot a film together.He took a leap of faith that day, and it defined his acting career. He continues to follow his heart, remaining unconcerned with showbiz conventions.To take more initiative as an actor, he set up his own production company in 2010. “To me, an actor is like a chess piece, waiting for producers and directors to put him somewhere they want him to be,” Chen once told 163 Entertainment. “But I want to be the game player.”“Actors should not be stuck in rules.” That’s Chen’s rule.
