Surviving in the Beijing Subways
A small man in his wheelchair gently nudges his way into the packed Line 2 subway. People make way for him; he stakes out his space at the end of the car. He pulls out what looks like a slightly undersized car battery, and clumsily wraps the copper wires around the positive and negative terminals. He reaches down to hook them up to the weathered speaker placed between his feet. After a slow but meticulous procedure, microphone, MP3 player and speaker are eventually all in place. He clears his throat and smiles uncomfortably. "I’m always a bit nervous when I get started," he says in a quiet voice.For now, Gao Xiaowei sings in subways. For three hours a day in his adopted city of Beijing, this is the way he wins his bread. He sings with closed eyes, shoulders swaying gently. "I want to know all about you, but I never got a chance," he croons, finishing the song with impressive sensitivity just before a recording announces the next subway stop. There is no applause, but a couple people toss a few paper bills into his box before they squeeze off of the train.Born in Jiangsu province to a farming couple, Gao was a happy and healthy baby. He explains how at the age of three, a small illness triggered an unfortunate train of events."At that time, rural medical conditions were very poor and the doctor wasn’t very professional. As a result, the doctor gave me an injection in the wrong spot which caused me to lose the use of my legs. I was paralyzed, and my family rushed to save me without retaining any evidence.”“On the one hand, we had no awareness about the law at that time, and it was difficult to sue doctors. On the other hand, the population in the country was small, and we all had close relationships with the doctor. So we didn’t have the nerve to sue him, and we didn’t want to cause any trouble. There were no consequences [for him] from any of this, and we think we were really a bit foolish at that time. Later, in [a] large hospital, the doctor was sure that it was caused by the [country doctor’s] medical error."As a young man on a farm, Gao was dissatisfied as he was unable to help with the required physical jobs, and he didn’t like being dependent on others. But his parents wouldn’t approve of him leaving town, so he had to run away from home to find out what life could offer him. He went to many cities before settling on Beijing."After I arrived in Beijing I sold all kinds of toys and jewelry for ladies. But now singing in underpasses can let me live day by day better than selling things could before."Even though he could earn more, there were still dangers. "At first, the police were very hard on me and I was forcibly sent home. Now their attitude is kind, and they can understand us; but I’m still afraid of them."Gao’s brightest days in Beijing were spent performing music alongside two friends, a drummer and guitarist. "We used to sing in a busy underpass at Wangfujing. At that time, many people appreciated us, and we gave many interviews such as for Beijing TV."But Beijing is a city where people come and go, and Gao has struggled with loneliness since his friends returned to their hometowns. You can hear a note of melancholy in his voice when he sings songs about love, including one he wrote himself. With an embarrassed smile, he recounts his love from his hometown, a girl whose parents wouldn’t accept him. "Now she is married but I still remember her. Because of her, at that time I wrote many poems and songs... But I felt so much pain from my lost love [that] I burnt those poems."Fortunately, music continues to play an important role for him. "It’s an indispensable part of my life. It can give me peace of mind, to temporarily forget the suffering... my life isn’t very good, I may be thought of as a beggar, but I need more than just food and meeting the needs of the body and music gives me a lot of spiritual comfort."
