The one and only Queen B
Pop diva, feminist icon, overexposed celebrity or working mother — no matter what you think of Beyonce Knowles, one thing is for certain: we are now living in the age of Beyonce.Last month, she sang the US national anthem at Obama’s inauguration ceremony, performed at the Super Bowl, had a self-directed bio documentary aired on HBO, and announced a world tour, The Mrs Carter Show, starting in April.And these events weren’t even her official comeback since her last album 4 launched in 2011 and the birth of her daughter in January 2012. Her fifth album, set to be released in April, is the real deal — at least for fans like me who are into Beyonce for her musical genius rather than her superstar divaness and overwhelming media exposure.Besides owning all her solo albums, I have been a fan of Beyonce since she was in Destiny’s Child. When I first listened to The Writing’s on the Wall, the R&B group’s breakthrough 1999 album, like the rest of the world, I was conquered.I soon noticed that most of the songs had Beyonce’s name in the writing credits. But for the past decade, during which Beyonce’s career has soared, there have been less of these idiosyncratic girl-power hits.Does that mean Beyonce’s musical talent is waning? If you listen to Countdown or the other songs on her last album — in which she was again involved in both writing and production — it is clear that Beyonce can still put together a masterpiece if she wants to.Everyone knows she can make good music, but it’s the style, the showmanship and the attitude that make her the Queen B of today. It would be a lot easier for her to be considered a musical genius if she played a guitar rather than dancing in heels. Or if she was a man, it would be easier for people to see Beyonce as both a musician and a god, like Justin Timberlake or Michael Jackson.So I guess the biggest reason that Beyonce isn’t thought of as a musical artist is because she doesn’t want to be thought of in that way, or doesn’t really care.Singers like Prince or Michael Jackson were clearly invested in their musical reputation and made epic, historic music. But in Beyonce’s case much of her recent music has not been so unforgettable.I personally wish Beyonce had spent more time being a genius. But for now her focus seems to be elsewhere. Perhaps she’s looking forward, not backward. Maybe making classic albums isn’t the part of her career she’s paying attention to. Or maybe she’s realized that while there are plenty of music geniuses, there’s only one Beyonce.
