Women on an equal footing
MANY say the Europeans lead the world by far in human development, and that even the Americans can’t keep up with them sometimes. French President Sarkozy has provided the latest example of this by trying to pass a law forcing gender equality in one of the most masculine areas still around in today’s world: the corporate boardroom.Britain’s the Guardian newspaper has reported that Sarkozy’s center-right party has proposed legislation that would see women "hold up half the sky" in France’s top corporate boardrooms by 2015. The bill requires all companies listed on the Paris stock exchange to gradually implement changes that put women in 20 percent of their board seats within 18 months, and 40 percent within four years. By 2015, half of the board members in all these companies must be women.The world may have been gasping over the audacity of the French bill and wondering whether it could succeed. Still, it’s important to note that, despite the progress women have made in all levels of society, top businesses are mostly male-dominated.In the UK, 12 percent of all board members in the top FTSE (Financial Times Stock Exchange) 100 companies are female. One in four boardrooms are exclusively male, wrote the Guardian. In the US, women are faring only slightly better at the largest companies - they hold 15 percent of board seats at Fortune 500 firms.By comparison, Nordic countries boast better conditions for senior businesswomen. The female director ratio in Swedish and Finnish companies is 22 and 17 percent, respectively. And Norway took the prize for the first country to boost the number of women on company boards by law, in 2003. The Norwegian government demanded that businesses increase the number of women on their boards to 40 percent, or they could suffer the punishment of being closed down. Although many protested against the move, the regulation worked. The Guardian says that Norway now has the highest proportion of women on boards anywhere in the world, at 44 percent-that’s up from 6 percent in 2001.Apart from being denied the opportunity to occupy coveted seats at the biggest companies, businesswomen around the world face a whole range of other discriminative problems.Louise Marie Roth, an American sociologist and author of "Selling Women Short: Gender and Money on Wall Street", illustrated the extreme gender inequality on Wall Street. She followed the career development of 76 male and female grads of top business schools. They all began work at big investment firms in the early 1990s. By 1997, the women were earning only 60.5 percent of what the men did.Linda Babcock, another American professor, notes that women are looked down on, and even punished, for asking for a pay raise. Meanwhile, their male colleagues are much more favorably treated in similar situations. Other studies show that men who get angry at work are more likely to be respected for it, while women who do so are seen as being "out of control".To combat such rampant discrimination in business, various governments have passed laws and regulations to help put women on a more equal footing.The US introduced the Equal Pay Act (EPA) in 1963, to "prohibit discrimination on account of sex in the payment of wages by employers", although enforcing it may be hard. In 2006, the European Union adopted The European Charter for Equality of Women and Men in Local Life. The charter says that equality between women and men is a fundamental right, and that "gender stereotypes and the attitudes and assumptions that arise from them must be eliminated."
