Back from the dead
The Revenant is a brutal tale about survival, revenge and retribution, which reflects the history of the US in the 1820s.Alejandro González Inárritu, the winner of this year’s Oscar for Best Director, set his latest work on the untamed American frontier, commonly called the “Wild West”. At that time, Europeans flocked to the New World in search of raw materials and precious commodities, like animal fur. According to Eric Jay Dolin, author of the book Fur, Fortune, and Empire, a sea otter pelt was worth $100 (651 yuan) at the time, while the average laborer in the US earned only $1 or $2 a day. The growing popularity of hunting disrupted North America’s ecological balance and triggered a backlash among the Arikara Native Americans.“[The Revenant] is the story of this country, which is basically the story of humanity,” Inárritu told Rolling Stone. “Colonialism has been [around] since man is man. In this case, it’s the 1820s, a part of history that hasn’t been explored too much in American films.”The film tells the story of Hugh Glass, a trapper played by Leonardo DiCaprio. Fur traders send Glass and a team of trappers to the US West Coast to hunt, but along the way, Glass is badly injured in a grizzly bear attack. He resolves to take revenge on the colleagues who left him for dead.Unlike his fellow fur trappers, who pursue economic gain by any means necessary, Glass is depicted as relatively respectful to the Native Americans. He even marries an aboriginal wife. He represents some of the invaders who were less greedy and inhumane.US novelist Michael Punke has a book about Glass’ thrilling journey, and the film is partially based on the book. But The Revenant heightens the stakes, presenting Glass with an even more desperate predicament. In the book, Glass has a map to help him find his destination. In the film, however, he’s left clueless, with no map to tell him how long a journey he has to face or whether he can hope for survival.People often say that, compared with nature, man is insignificant. Yet the film depicts humankind’s tenacious vitality under intolerable conditions. Glass survived a frozen river, gunfire, and a grizzly bear mauling. Just as the line on the movie poster says, he’s “one who has returned, as if from the dead.”At the beginning of the film, Glass says to his son, “As long as you can still grab a breath, you fight. You breathe... Keep breathing.” That’s the essence of this survival epic.
