How to love the winter
Temperatures have plummeted across the northern hemisphere in recent weeks, and icy conditions, everywhere have forced people to take extra care. But they’ve also provided some chances for cold-weather fun.And since cultural trends often spill across geographical borders, there’s a rich mix of things that people eat, drink, wear and do around the globe when the mercury falls.DrinkHot alcoholic drinks are popular in the UK. A Scottish hot toddy is made with honey, lemon and whisky and keeps the highlanders warm. The English like to sip mulled wine as they sit round an open log fire in a traditional pub.Russians are renowned for enjoying vodka to stave off the winter chill, but “It’s a mistake to think alcohol helps when it’s cold,” Gennady Onishenko, Russia’s chief sanitary inspector, tells the UK Times. “It damages you and gives a feeling of false warmth.” A non-alcoholic alternative is Sbiten, or hot mead: a drink made with honey, spices, jam and water, though the water can be replaced by wine.Hot chocolate is a popular daytime warmer. “Berliners are nesting. Hot chocolate outlets are booming,” wrote Roger Boyes in the UK Times last Thursday. Hot chocolate is also a winter drink of choice in the States, and New York is brimming with great spots for the molten brew.FoodA good meal helps get anyone through a cold snap. Slow cooked meat and vegetable dishes are popular, taking the form of casserole or stew in the US, a ragout in France, or a goulash, the traditional stew of Hungary, in Eastern Europe. In the UK, nothing goes down quite as well as a bag of takeaway fish and chips on a frozen night.Meat is a key ingredient and in the coldest climes, like Siberia, where temperatures reach -30 C or below, people live on reindeer and horsemeat. Siberian mothers rub a cream made from badger fat on their children’s faces to keep their skin from getting chapped.ClothingIn Siberia, animals are also used for clothing. Ushanka hats, made from fur, with earflaps, are worn throughout Russia. The name derives from the Russian word for “ears”. Valenki boots, made of wool, have kept Russians’ feet warm since medieval times. “Valenki are making a stylish comeback in Russia’s capital, with Moscow’s young and fashionable wearing them out in the city’s cafes and nightclubs,” The New York Times reported last week. Staying fashionable means ignoring the frost, for some youngsters. In Northern England, girls wear miniskirts when they go out to bars in the biting cold and drink strong alcohol so they don’t feel the chill.A report in Sina.com earlier this year marveled at young Japanese girl’s resistance to the cold: “In Hokkaido’s blizzard, in freezing temperatures over 10 C below zero, hot girls walk the streets still wearing revealing short skirts and hot pants, without stockings.”However, when it gets too cold, most ditch fashion for warmth. According to BBC reporter Matthew Price, even style-conscious New Yorkers pull on puff jackets and everyone, including the men, don ear-muffs.Outdoor activitiesFor many, winter is not about combating the cold, but embracing it. Winter sports abound in Canada, where the winter Olympics will be held this year. Ice hockey is a national pastime and skiing, snowboarding, dog sledding, and ice skating are common. In Alaska and the great lakes region of north America winter activities include ice fishing, hunting, cross-country skiing and snowmobiling.The chill also offers challenges. Ice swimming, for example, seems to be one with global appeal. A hole is cut in the ice to expose enough water for adrenaline junkies to dive into.In Russia, “walrus” clubs perform this function. In North America, the participants are called “polar bears”. On New Year’s day, New Yorker’s join the Coney Island polar plunge and, in Germany, the Berlin “seals” brave their own icy pool. Bulgarians dance in icy water on Epiphany (a Christian festival on January 6). In London, swimmers take the plunge in the Serpentine lake, on Christmas day.It’s true that severe cold can throw plans and schedules into disarray, but around the world we’ve figured out various winter delights that make a deep freeze seem–well, almost welcome.
