Peng kicks back
After 20 years, legendary martial artist Wong Fei-hung has hit the big screen again. In Rise of the Legend, which will be released this Friday, Taiwan actor Eddie Peng debuts a younger, cooler version of the Chinese “superhero”.Handsome though Peng is, audiences’ focus and expectations will probably still be on how he reinterprets the character in fight scenes. His predecessors are great martial arts stars Jet Li ( Once Upon a Time in China, in 1991) and Jackie Chan (Drunken Master, in 1978), and the 32-year-old admits he felt an “immense pressure” while playing the role.“I knew that I had to make desperate efforts since I’m not particularly talented. In all of 2013, I didn’t waste a single day, I just practiced and practiced. Every night when I was lying in bed, I felt my legs and arms no longer belonged to me,” Peng said at a press conference when promoting the movie in Shanghai.He suffered numerous injuries during the movie’s production. His right hand swelled when he tried to break a stone pillar in half bare-handed.This was hardly the first time Peng pushed himself hard in trying to perfect the skills required for different roles.Peng played a gymnast in his 2011 movie Jump, A-Shin!. Although passionate about sports, he struggled to adapt to the role. It took him six months to just learn a few basic gymnastic drills, not to mention how much time he spent on the horizontal bar, hand rings and pommel horse.Hard work paid off. He was nominated Best Actor in the 48th Golden Horse Awards for his performance. Also because of the role, director Chow Hin-yeung called on him to play Wong Fei-hung, as he saw Peng’s potential to be transformed into a kung fu master. “Eddie’s a malleable performer. After some training, he can pull off any role convincingly,” Yeung said in an interview with Mtime.With two movies (the other one is Back in Time) to be released soon, the diligent actor is sure to attract a great deal of coverage in the entertainment press in the coming weeks. But Peng is already looking to rise to another challenge. “In the future, I would like to play a comedic role or a villain.”
