Happy ending or tomb of love
Tina Wang married her first boyfriend in the spring of 2008. By the summer of 2009, they were divorced. "I couldn’t tolerate his temper ...we always argued, "Wang says. "I wanted to find someone who would be a better match for me." Wang belongs to the "post-1980s generation", single children who are the product of China’s 1979 family planning policy and the people who are fueling the country’s rising divorce rate. According to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, 1.71 million couples filed for divorce last year, up 10.3 percent over 2008. There is no specific data on the number of divorces among the post-80s group, but the Chinese Research Association on Youth and Family says 30 percent of such marriages end up failing. "The reason the divorce rate is high among post-80s couples is mainly that they value their own interests and rarely care about other people’s feelings," says Sun Yunxiao, deputy director of the China Youth and Children Research Center. "They are officially China’s first ’Me Generation’." What the statistics do not reveal, however, is the emotional growth that occurs among these men and women after divorce.Sun Li (not his real name) actually feels the pressure of social expectations. He married for the second time in 2008, four years after his divorce, because he was "nearing 30 and should have a child".first time at age 22, three months after dating a woman who was two years younger."I was basically impulsive, full of passion, saw my friends were married my parents said I should look for a girlfriend and get married," he says.The union lasted only 13 months because the newlyweds preferred to go out and party rather than keep house."If you can avoid divorce, then avoid divorce," he says. "Especially if you have a child, don’t get divorced. Think carefully about marriage. Think even more carefully about divorce." The impulsive decisions of the post-80s generation is just one of the factors behind China’s rising divorce rate. The underlying reason, says youth and marriage therapist Ma Fengru, is society’s increasingly progressive views about divorce.The decision to marry and divorce is influenced by the growing emphasis on what is beneficial to the individual - in a society that has traditionally been taught to prioritize the welfare of the collective. Tina Wang, meanwhile, is preparing for her second marriage - with her former husband. Wang says meeting her second boyfriend made her realize that her ex was the right man for her."We’re now more understanding and patient with each other’s idiosyncrasies. We’re more tolerant of each other," she says.Wang admits her friends are skeptical about her decision, but says the remarriage is being welcomed by both sets of parents. 
