The richest Hollywood teenage stars
We put together a list of Hollywood’s highest earning young stars, which Miley tops. But can you guess the other richest celebs in town?Miley Cyrus doesn’t have a film franchise behind her, but the Hannah Montana series catapulted her into the number one spot for the highest earning teen. Even though she only made $15,000 an episode, the endorsements and concert tours make Miley, 19, worth an estimated $120 million.With eight films in the Harry Potter franchise, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson and Daniel Radcliffe are three of the highest earning actors in the world. Emma and Rupert are worth an estimated $50 million each, and Daniel’s net worth is estimated to be between $37-80 million.It should be not surprise Rob Pattinson, Kristen Stewart and Taylor Lautner are three of the richest young actors in Hollywood. The Twilight franchise has blown up more than anyone could have ever expected back in 2008. Rob and Kristen both made a reported $25 million for their roles in the Breaking Dawn films and all three will get a portion of the profits. Taylor made big headlines when he landed $7.5 million for his role in Abduction.Dakota Fanning goes to be a normal teen, but she’s far from it. The recent high school grad is worth an estimated $16 million, which has come from her roles in the Twilight films and her other endorsements.Abigail Breslin’s role in the upcoming ensemble film, New Years Eve, made her an estimated $275,000! Thanks to all the work the 15-year-old actress has put in over the past decade, she’s worth an estimated $12 million.Jaden Smith might have some of the wealthiest parents in the world, but he’s doing just fine without their financial support. The 13-year-old triple threat made $1 million on The Karate Kid and is worth an estimated $8 million.Keke Palmer is one of the highest paid teen TV actresses and is raking in an estimated $20,000 an episode for her Nickelodeon show. Estimated worth: $7.5 million.Chloe Moretz isn’t a household name just yet, but the 14-year-old Kick Ass actress is one of the most sought after names in Hollywood. Estimated worth: $4 million.Selena Gomez made $30,000 an episode during her time on Wizards of Waverly Place, but it’s really her endorsements that are bringing in the big bucks. The 19-year-old actress is worth an estimated $4 million.
