Criminal mind
High-concept science-fiction movies tend to go in two different directions. They can be either as campy as John Woo’s Face/Off (1997) or as thought-provoking as Christopher Nolan’s Inception (2010).The new movie Criminal, however, doesn’t seem to know which path to take. At once serious and silly, the film hinges on one of the most beloved tropes of the genre: Our hero wakes up to find his head filled with memories that aren’t his own, and he has to fight to make sense of them before time runs out.The story begins when CIA agent Bill Pope (Ryan Reynolds) is killed during a top-secret mission. Unable to resuscitate him, CIA scientists transfer his memories into Jerico (Kevin Costner), a ruthless criminal.Israeli director Ariel Vromen uses this well-worn plot to explore how malleable human identity might be. “Science is kind of bringing us along already and suggesting deleting bad memories,” Vromen told the US entertainment site Den of Geek. He explores some of the ethical implications of altering memories through Jerico and his adventures.Jerico is a prisoner who suffers from “frontal lobe syndrome” due to a childhood brain injury. In other words, he neither has emotions nor empathy. But shortly after Pope’s memories are implanted into his brain, Jerico starts to adopt Pope’s characteristics.Jerico glimpses flashes of the past that hold clues to what happened during Pope’s classified mission. But the most overwhelming sensation Jericho experiences is a sudden rush of love and responsibility.It’s here that the outlandish sci-fi plot gives way to domestic melodrama. Jericho’s new memories lead him to the doorstep of Pope’s grieving widow (Gal Gadot). It’s little surprise that Jerico finds renewed purpose in the warmth of hearth and home, but, as Chicago Tribune film critic Katie Walsh points out, Vromen uses these scenes to raise questions about the role of redemption in today’s criminal justice system.“The idea that someone else’s memories might make an unrepentant killer feel something real for the first time ends up being a rather poignant concept,” Walsh wrote. “Jerico, written off and imprisoned by society, not only gets a purpose in his life, but he gets to understand the way that other, normal people understand the world.”With its mad-scientist plot, the film may ultimately be too cornball for some moviegoers – and that’s okay. Its unapologetically sincere tone makes Criminal a refreshing departure from the snark and sarcasm that have come to dominate the summer movie season. With weighty performances and a strong plot, Criminal has set the bar high for this season’s blockbusters.
