Workplace etiquette for newbies
When you start a new job you are often unsure of many things. How can I find someone to have lunch with? What should I call a colleague? They are not such a problem at college: students in the same dorm naturally gather around the table and it’s common to give a nickname to schoolmates.Petty as these worries appear, how you handle them reflects whether you successfully shift from being a student to being an employee. Your boss will be watching how well you communicate with your colleagues.21st Century reporter Xu Jingxi talked to workplace newbies and career experts to get tips for a smooth transition.How can I find someone to have lunch with?Few people want to be a lone wolf in the office. Neither did Lu Mengchan, 23, a fresh grad working on a website in Jiaxing, Zhejiang. But she still spent the first two weeks having lunch alone in the corner.“I was afraid that I would look like a social climber if I asked senior colleagues whether I could join them for lunch,” said Lu. So like many other workplace newbies, she waited for colleagues to invite her.But why must your colleagues invite you for lunch? Feng Lijuan, career consultant from 51job.com, emphasizes that the key phrase for blending into a team is “taking the initiative”.Zhang Xingzhi, expert on workplace etiquette, offers tips to help you mix with your colleagues.1. If people in the office tend to order take-away food for lunch, you can volunteer to help with the ordering.A positive approach to helping is especially important for interns. As well as ordering lunch, interns should be ready to take on trivial tasks, such as photocopying and data research.2. If people in the office dine in the canteen, it’s wise to politely ask those who sit around you to dine with you. This makes the invitation sound natural.What should I call a colleague?To show her humbleness and respect for senior colleagues, Chi Xiao, 21, used to call them “Master” regardless of their age. But the supervisor of the intern at Xinhua News Agency is only three years older than her. She was embarrassed and asked Chi to call her “Sister”.According to consultant Feng, the boss will assess a new employee’s communication skills by watching them interact with new colleagues. Are they at ease in front of strangers? Do they cause any awkward situations?Feng added that unless you are asked to call your colleague “Sister” or “Brother”, such intimate nicknames are inappropriate when you are new and do not know people well.To play it safe, etiquette expert Zhang advises that you ask in a light-hearted tone beforehand if a colleague is happy with the intimate addressing.How you address someone depends on the corporation’s culture, and varies among professions and departments. Zhang offers more tips.1. “Master” can be used to call your mentors and HR colleagues who are in charge of job training.2. “Upperclassman” is only used on campus. It’s inappropriate in the workplace.3. If the colleague has a title, the safest address is to use their family name plus their title. Delete the word “deputy”.4. In Western enterprises, you can call colleagues by their English name. Don’t add “Sister” or “Brother” after the English name. It sounds awkward.
