Hua could be our next big thing
The 2014 hit song My Skating Shoes (《我的滑板鞋》) has gone viral again recently on social media. The tune used to get stuck in people’s heads due to its diaosi (“self-depreciating loser”) themed lyrics and singer Pang Mailang’s heavy southern Mandarin dialect. But this time, singer Hua Chenyu sang it in his style, and upgraded it into an elegant production that’s highly appreciated by professionals.Nicknamed “Brother from Mars”, the 26-year-old singer left the impression of being an *eccentric *weirdo on the public ever since choosing to sing a self-written lyric-less song at the audition for Hunan TV’s singing competition show Super Boy (《快乐男声》) in 2013. In Why Nobody Fights, a song from his debut album Quasimodo’s Gift (《卡西莫多的礼物》, 2014), he repeatedly sang one sentence “why nobody fights” over different melodies.“I don’t care how others see my music as long as I enjoy it. Musical works should not be created to *ingratiate anyone,” Hua said in an interview with 163 Entertainment.Perhaps an *egotistic Hua doesn’t need recognition and applause in his own musical world, but the Mandopop scene, which has been experiencing a low-tide period, does yearn for the next big thing with a large scale of admiration.Compared with the film and TV industries, music is now a low-margin field. A so-called “fresh meat” artist can easily earn tens of millions of yuan for shooting a 40-episode ancient fantasy series while CD stores are on the verge of extinction. Many of Hua’s fellow singers who also entered showbiz through Super Boy, including Ou Hao and Yu Menglong, are now more active on the big screen than in the recording studio.When we talk about huge, influential stars, we’re still talking about Jay Chou, Faye Wong or Eason Chan, just like we did 10 or even 15 years ago.However, when it’s the worst of times, it’s also the best of times. In the past two years, more Chinese fans are starting to get used to paying for digital copies of songs. When music is given a monetary value, we believe in its prospect.But in a re-rising industry, who will be the next national idol?Music critic Aidiren has compared Hua with Jay Chou in a review on Quasimodo’s Gift he wrote for Southern Metropolis Entertainment Weekly. “Hua presents his own sensory world of a bit of bizarreness, spirit and fantasy mixed together. Just like Chou brought in his first album, Hua showcases an *unrestrained artistic talent that differentiates him from his peers.”With a wide vocal range and *flexibility, *striking creative talent, a large hard-core fan base as well as a unique musical style, maybe the only thing Hua needs now is a more widely circulated and quality original song.
