Phantom concerts
Hatsune Miku, a digital avatar created with the help of hologram technology, has become popular all over the world. She held her concert in Shanghai on June 27 and 28 this summer.Thousands flocked to Shanghai last month to watch their favorite blue-haired songstress perform live. Looks, however, can be deceiving.The singer, Hatsune Miku, was what some call a digital avatar. Wearing her hair in two long ponytails, Miku appears onstage as a 3-D projection with the help of hologram technology. She sings and dances according to the directions of programmers who choreograph the concerts weeks or months in advance. Developed by Japanese company Crypton Future Media in 2007, this 16-year-old star’s voice is produced by synthesizing software.Holograms, a photographic recording of a light field, can display a three-dimensional image of a subject. Experts take the likenesses and voice of an artist and digitally recreate it through the technology.Holograms have been used to bring dead celebrities back to life on more than one occasion. In 2012, US hip-hop icon Tupac Shakur reappeared onstage at the Coachella Valley music festival and performed alongside rappers Snoop Dogg and Dr Dre. The audience was shocked and went dead silent. After all, 15 years have passed since Shakur’s death.Since then, the technology has increasingly been applied to performances. In 2013, a holographic image of deceased pop singer Teresa Teng appeared alongside Taiwanese pop star Jay Chou in concert. Last year, the likeness of Michael Jackson performed at the Billboard Music Awards.The performance touched many fans and Michael Jackson’s family. According to Billboard, one of Jackson’s brothers, Jackie Jackson, teared up while watching Michael’s image perform the song “Slave to Rhythm”. “I’m telling you it’s amazing,” he told Billboard. In this way, holography seemingly offers an opportunity to cherish the memories of passed stars.Hatsune Miku may never have been a real person, but it seems she still gives fans a thrill. James Verini, a contributor to US technology magazine Wired, noted Miku is portrayed on her fan site as being better than human. “She’s rather more like a goddess: She has human parts, but she transcends human limitations. She’s the great post-human pop star,” wrote Verini on Wired.In fact, Mallika Rao, a staff writer at The Huffington Post, points out fans are not just cheering for Miku, but for what she represents.
