Beat the heat with a book
IT’S summer break, time to push aside your textbooks and read something just for fun, or for your personal interest. You might soon find yourself holding your breath as you turn the pages of a fast-paced thriller, or browsing the latest chick-lit on your new e-reader. For those of you who are up to the challenge of trying some leisure reading in English, but have no idea of what to choose from among the thousands of options, 21st Century offers this summer reading supplement to help you out.Independent booksellers recommendTHE past year saw many wonderful new books released in the UK and US. The website for National Public Radio (Npr.org) in the US invited some independent booksellers to recommend books for summer reading. The selection below should be on display soon at Chinese foreign language bookstores.The Four Corners of the Sky By Michael Malone Publisher: Sourcebooks Landmark (May 2009)Seven-year-old Annie is left by her father on the family’s farm with her aunt. Adventurous Annie grows up to become a navy fighter pilot. When her father calls years later, he claims that he’s dying and needs her help to find a treasure. She agrees - in exchange for the name of the mother she’s never known.The Housekeeper and the Professor By Yoko Ogawa Publisher: Picador (February 2009)Due to an accident, the mathematics professor’s short-term memory lasts only 80 minutes, so his housekeeper must reintroduce herself each morning when she arrives. With the help of numbers, eventually the two are able to develop a relationship across the 80-minute time spans.The School of Essential Ingredient By Erica Bauermeister Publisher: Putnam Adult (January 2009)Eight students gather in Lillian’s Restaurant every Monday night for a cooking class. But they each seek a recipe for something outside the kitchen. Chef Lillian helps them to create dishes whose flavors and techniques expand beyond the restaurant and into the secret corners of her students’ lives.The Selected Works of T.S. Spivet By Reif Larsen Publisher: Penguin (May 2009)T.S. Spivet is a brilliant 12-year-old boy who maps everything, including faces, the dinner table and the geology of his home state of Montana (US). After seeing his work, a famous scientific institution invites Spivet to be a speaker at an important event, without knowing the boy’s age.A Reliable Wife By Robert Goolrick, Publisher: Algonquin Books (March 2009)Ralph Truitt is a wealthy businessman who lives a life of loneliness. Desperate for companionship, he places an advertisement in a newspaper for a "reliable wife". Catherine Land, the woman who answers, travels in the dead of winter to begin a new life with Ralph. But she’s not the "simple, honest woman" that Ralph is expecting.Best-sellers in ChineseWITH increased market demand, Chinese publishers are working faster than ever to introduce English best-sellers and launch high-quality translations. Topping the best-seller list of English fiction at Amazon.cn are book-to-movie titles like Twilight and Slumdog Millionaire. Here are some current best-sellers available in Chinese translation.The Memory Keeper’s Daughter By Kim Edward Publisher: Penguin (May 2006)In 1964, when a blizzard forces Dr. David Henry to deliver his own twins, he discovers that one of them has Down Syndrome. He asks his nurse to take the baby away to an institution and keep her birth a secret. This split-second decision will haunt them for the rest of their lives.On Chesil Beach By Ian McEwan Publisher: Anchor (June 2008)It is June, 1962. In a hotel by the beach, Edward and Florence, who got married that morning, are sitting down to dinner in their room. Both are anxious about the wedding night to come. The novel was a runner-up for the Booker Prize in 2007.The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid By Bill Bryson Publisher: Broadway (September 2007)The author recalls his all-American childhood in the 1950s. Like millions of his generation, Bryson grew up with a rich fantasy life, imagining himself as a superhero. He ran around his neighborhood in an old football jersey with a thunderbolt on it, vanquishing evildoers as "The Thunderbolt Kid".Talk to the Hand By Lynne Tru Publisher: Profile (July 2007)When did the world get to be so rude? When did society become so inconsiderate? Taking on the rude behavior that has become a point of pride for some, Talk to the Hand is a rallying cry for courtesy.
