Creating new worlds with a pen
How does the lotus fairy throw a banquet? What magical word can make a fox turn into an elf? What does the god of migrating birds look like?Looking for answers, readers in China and Japan flip through the colorful pages of a book that takes readers through historic buildings and beautiful scenery. The heroine, a 9-year-old girl named Xiaoyu, first appeared in the childhood dreams of the Hunan-born author and cartoonist Xia Da. Seven years after drawing out her ideas in ink, Xia is now a rising star in the comic book world. The series, titled Things That People Can’t Explain (Zibuyu， 《子不语》), has been called “the most beautiful manga in China” by Ultra Jump, a top Japanese manga magazine. Manga is Japanese for comic or cartoon. Ultra Jump has selected Xia’s comics to be featured in its pages.“When colleagues told me my piece was chosen, I was too surprised to believe it,” Xia said. “I thought it was a joke.” Her reaction is understandable, considering how difficult it is for a foreign artist to enter the Japanese manga market. The famous Taiwan cartoonist Choi Chi-Chung (蔡志忠) wrote about his similar uphill battle in his autobiography. But this accomplishment didn’t interest the Chinese media as much as Xia’s beauty. After seeing her photos, websites and newspapers published them under the headline “beautiful girl”. They hounded her with questions about her romantic life.Xia was annoyed by the media’s infatuation with her looks. “Please do not spread my photos, and do not speculate on my private life,” wrote Xia on her blog. “My usual state is bending my head over the paper. My clothes are covered with stains and my hands blotted with ink. I work my fingers to the bone everyday. I do not take a bath or change clothes for a whole week. ”“I am not a fairy living in wonderland. I am a cartoonist.” Growing up with Saint Seiya and Dragon Ball, Xia had always dreamed of becoming a cartoonist. She read manga secretly in class and filled the margins of her textbooks with her own sketches. In junior high, she joined a manga club in a local bookstore.After graduating from Hunan Light Industry College in 2004, she moved to Beijing to pursue her dream. “I like the feeling of creating different worlds with my pen and imagination,” she said.Xia has created a mediaeval town full of elf princesses and knights, a busy modern city with young students pursuing dreams, and a quiet ancient town with innocent children and mysterious legends. Behind the lines of these fantastic lands sits a young woman who has battled countless rejections. From 2006 to 2008, many domestic manga magazines, like Beijing Cartoon and Cartoon King, went out of print. “It was the darkest time for Chinese cartoonists,” Xia said. “Most people thought Chinese cartoons had come to the end. I felt like I was wasting my life drawing something I wasn’t sure readers would ever see.” So, when people finally started focusing on the lilies and roses in her comics, she was hesitant. “I don’t want to be an after-dinner conversation piece,” Xia said. “I hope people can really pay attention to my work.” She celebrated her 29th birthday last week by finishing up the third book of Zibuyu, which will be published in China and Japan in 2010. The two countries read in opposite directions, so she drew two versions of the book. She refused to simply reverse the pictures, because she thought it would “destroy the perfect balance of the scenes.” Xia says that she also wants to dress up and go shopping with friends, but she just can’t stop drawing.“I have finally come to a good point after a rugged path,” she said. “And I know it is just a point of departure for the next journey.”
