Cross-dressing couples pose for photo series
A Canadian photographer has given the term ’boyfriend jeans’ a whole new meaning.Hana Pesut, 30, has been photographing couples, friends and family in their own outfits, and then again in each other’s, since 2010 for a book project called Switcheroo.Mixing and matching skirts and jeans; trucker caps and straw hats; parkas and pea coats; pendants and bow ties; and heels and heavy boots, the compelling couples look at once goofy and intimate dressed in each others clothes.Ms Pesut told the Globe and Mail: ’It’s a nice way to take a portrait and to see the way couples interact with one another. To see how much fun it is for them to see each other in each other’s clothes.’A couple of guys have not liked it. They act like their girlfriend tricked them into doing it. Others are good sports. They know they look funny. It’s all just for fun.’The idea first came to Ms Pesut, who works as a deejay and handles social media for a company in the entertainment business, while on a camping trip with friends.’I was camping with some friends and two of them were dressed in very different styles. One was wearing tie dye, sequins, silk scarves and everything was very colorful, whereas the other was wearing black jeans and a black T-shirt, so we thought it would be fun for them to switch outfits and I decided to take before and after photos.’After that day, I would see couples walking in the street and I would wonder what they would look like in each others outfits so I thought it would be fun to find out.’So she began chronicling the images, which she takes at locations that resonate with each couple, on her blog sincerelyhana.com, before she complied them for an up-coming book which she is currently raising funds for via Indiegogo.’I think people find it really intriguing to see someone that they are close with dressed up as them,’ she said.Special spots: Ms Pesut chooses each location based on places that are special or memorable for each couple.Not so sure: The photographer admitted, ’A couple of guys have not liked it. They act like their girlfriend tricked them into doing it. Others are good sports. They know they look funny. It’s all just for fun’.Boy meets girl: Ms Pesut said, ’Some of the men are usually a little unsure of what they are getting into but once they are actually in the women’s clothing they realize it’s not so bad, sometimes they really pull it off!’’They learn the trick that high heels make your legs look longer!’Mirror, mirror: The photographer thinks of her portraits as a way to ’see the way couples interact with one another. To see how much fun it is for them to see each other in each other’s clothes’Globe trotter: She has photographed over 200 ’switcheroos’ all over the world, including Spain, Japan, France, Austria, Mexico, Canada and America.Final cut: Ms Pesut is publishing a 64-page book of some of her favorite images, which she hopes to have printed in January 2013
