Perfect for the role
A good performer is supposed to nail every character they portray. But there are special roles that are made for a particular actor and *illuminate that artist’s career.For actress Zhou Dongyu, Li Ansheng in Soulmate (《七月与安生》) is one such role. This *rebellious and *erratic character won her the Best Actress award at the 53rd Golden Horse Awards on Nov 26. She shared the honor with Ma Sichun, 28, who played Ansheng’s soulmate Lin Qiyue in the film.“Ansheng and I are both yearning for freedom. That’s what we have in common. Like her, I’m also a frank and *outspoken person who’s never hiding my smiles and tears,” Zhou told Tencent.As a “Mou girl”, which refers to talented actresses discovered by master director Zhang Yimou, Zhou rose from ordinary 18-year-old girl to a household name overnight in 2010.But soon people discovered that Zhou was totally different from Jingqiu, the withdrawn, innocent girl she played in her debut film Under the Hawthorn Tree (《山楂树之恋》，2010).She’s straightforward and has a sharp tongue. Sometimes her *blunt delivery even gets her in trouble. In one episode of Dragon TV’s reality show Go Fighting! (《极限挑战 》) broadcasted last year, she frankly declined to do a photo shoot with Chinese actor Wang Xun. Many people thought she was impolite and *flippant although she said she didn’t mean to be rude.“I don’t like to put too much *restraint on myself besides being moral and ethical,” she told The Paper. “Life is short and happiness is important.”The desire to pursue an *egoistic lifestyle connects Ansheng and Zhou, which helped her to vividly and exquisitely bring Ansheng to life in the film.Hong Kong director Peter Chan who’s also the producer of Soulmate, once shared his view about good performances at a press conference for the film in Beijing. “Whether an actor can perform well depends on the character choice,” he said. “As long as they are a perfect match for a role, they can do a great job.”Some of Zhou’s well-acclaimed roles before playing Ansheng also reveal a wayward girl. The maverick girl in road trip film Breakup Buddies (《心花路放》，2014) and the ill-tempered genius in The Ark of Mr Chow (《少年班》，2015) are two such examples.Indeed, Zhou may not be an all-around actress, or at least not yet. But we do look forward to the next role that inspires her to deliver another award-winning performance.
