Monstrous movie
In 1954, the first Godzilla movie was released. A black and white, man-in-a-rubber-suit action thriller, the originalGodzilla may not be a great monster movie by today’s standards, but it has certainly left us one of the most recognizable characters in movie history.Now, coinciding with Godzilla’s 60th birthday, the radioactive monster has finally returned to the big screen in an adaptation that matches its size.You may expect the movie to be another disaster story in which monsters destroy buildings and kill people, or a movie with nothing more than good visuals. But the movie is not centered around Godzilla. Rather, it’s based around the Brody family, who we first meet in 1999 Japan.Bryan Cranston, 58, the Breaking Bad star, plays Joe Brody, an American engineer who manages a nuclear reactor in Tokyo, where a mysterious “earthquake” destroys the plant, killing his wife in the process. Years later, Brody believes something else created the earthquake and vows to find out, with his son Ford (Aaron Taylor-Johnson). Soon they find themselves drawn into a global conspiracy that involves several countries and several monsters with varying dispositions.The cast delivers a powerful performance. And of course, let’s not forget the titular character Godzilla, which gets an updated look that’s more realistic, yet retains the style of the original version. But the biggest credit should go to British director Gareth Edwards, who elevates the movie to another level by balancing the dueling monsters with much humanity.Edwards could have just played the movie straight and had monsters fighting each other and the army. But the story concerns family love, through which father and son try to reunite, and also teaches us how man has tarnished nature. And this eco-friendly message isn’t superficially injected into the audience’s head, it’s there throughout the movie.Also, Edwards’ storytelling ability gives the movie a patient pace and unique vision and makes the movie an “on-the-edge-of-your-seat” experience.Overall, this is a Godzilla movie that everyone can enjoy. In a year full of sci-fi movies and similar characters, like cartoon superheroes and robots, Godzilla is a hands-down standout.
