Fun ideas for New Year’s
New Year’s Day holiday is coming. But some students don’t look excited - the early Spring Festival in 2012 brings early final exams, and many students have to sit the exams once the holidays are over.We might not have time for a relaxing trip to other cities. But we can do more than bury our heads in textbooks and essays.21st Century reporter Xu Jingxi interviewed students to find out their plans.1.Write a year-end report.While white-collar workers are stressed out writing year-end reports, have you ever realized that it may be a pleasant and rewarding way to embrace the new year?Of course, the year-end report we are talking about here is different from those assigned by your boss or teachers.It’s personal. You’re not restricted to talking about academic performance. Nor do you need to worry about the writing.Du Wenbo, 20, is a student from Xi’an Jiaotong University. He writes year-end reports to ring in a new year.The collection of reports captures memorable stories of Du’s campus life.The top story for his 2011 report is Du’s experience organizing a 63rd birthday party for his foreign teacher.He remembers classmates discussed the choice of food, decorated the room and his teacher’s delight.“My year-end report in sophomore year was mainly about having fun with my friends. I can see myself become more considerate this year,” said Du.2.Have fun at the school’s party or even organize one yourself on campus.The countdown carnival in a downtown plaza is usually more attractive than a campus event.You can dance to singer Wilber Pan at Shanghai Xintiandi this year. Or you can watch the fireworks at the bell tower in Xi’an.However, many colleges are located on campuses far from the downtown area. It’s unrealistic for students to rush back to the suburbs after the countdown party late at night.Most universities sponsor their student unions to organize New Year’s Eve parties. Meng Xianghao, 20, prefers the party at his school, Nanjing University, to a crowded one downtown.“Designed by students, the games at the school’s party cater to our tastes better and are more creative,” said Meng.For example, his peers set up a mini stage with a karaoke machine. Students enjoyed being rock stars.Some complain that it’s difficult to contribute ideas for games if they are not members of the student union.Fortunately, some schools such as Northeast Normal University in Changchun are offering space for smaller parties.The teaching buildings are open to students for the whole night on New Year’s Eve.3. Drop by your schoolmate’s dorms.Northeast Normal University (NENU) students need to sweep their dorms before New Year’s Day to get prepared for visitors, especially of the opposite sex.During the holiday, students from NENU have access to any of the dorm buildings with their student identity cards. They can make new friends on the first days of a new year.Ying Chaonan, 21, participated in the dorm visit last year and made boy friends. The boys were excited about the girl visitors. They volunteered as tour guides and showed Ying to dorms displaying their owners’ personalities.Ying was impressed by a dorm decorated by calligraphy works and pictures of Laozi. She was also interested in watching male students playing card games designed by themselves.“The best way to get to know a person is to visit his dorm. It’s easier for me to find compatible friends,” said Ying.
