Battle of the box office
December is a golden month for films. This year, the holiday season has attracted more than 20 rival movies. The most eagerly awaited among them are poised to be Flying Swords of Dragon Gate by Hong Kong director Tsui Hark, and Zhang Yimou’s The Flowers of War, which both hit cinemas on December 16. Both movies are big-budget blockbusters from directors with box office successes. Which one do you anticipate more? After reading the chart below, you may find your answer.Flying Swords of Dragon GateBackgroundThis film is based on the story of 1992’s New Dragon Gate Inn, a work by Tsui Hark. Although Tsui denied that it would be a remake, but more of a reimagination, Flying Swords of Dragon Gate in a way builds on past glories.Director and castTsui is known for making good wuxia films. His last wuxia work in 2010, Detective Dee and the Mystery of the Phantom Flame got rave reviews.The cast of the film is full of stars, including kungfu master Jet Li, Zhou Xun, Chen Kun, Kwai Lun-mei, and singer-turned-actress Mavis Fan and Li Yuchun.Quite apart from the story, the cast list alone would attract filmgoers.ProductionHave you heard of a 3D wuxia film? No, because Flying Swords of Dragon Gate is a first of its kind. The film is shot entirely in 3D, and it comes out in the form of 3D and IMAX.Tsui has tailored his direction to take full advantage of the technology, in the action scenes and even in the more static application of 3D.Tsui also invited Chuck Comisky, the visual-effects supervisor of the film Avatar, as the 3D director to manage the special effects.StorySet in the Ming Dynasty, former general Zhou Huai’an (Jet Li) is determined to take down evil eunuch Yu Huatian (Chen Kun), to restore order in the palace.Meanwhile, a new gang of marauders have taken over the Dragon Inn: innkeepers by day and treasure hunters by night. The inn is the rumored location of a lost city with hidden treasure buried under the desert.As several groups cross paths at the Dragon Gate Inn, an epic confrontation is set to happen.The Flowers of WarBackgroundDecember 13 marked the 74th anniversary of the Nanjing massacre. This film, which is based on a historical novel by Yan Geling, is set to pay tribute to the historical event–an element central to The Flowers of War.Driector and castEvery time Zhang Yimou produces a new film it grabs headlines. The criticism of his last two films, A Simple Noodle Story (2009) and Under the Hawthorn Tree (2010), didn’t stop him making different types of films.As usual Zhang has picked a bunch of new actors and actresses for this film, such as Ni Ni. The biggest name is certainly Oscar-winning star Christian Bale, who is known for playing Batman.ProductionZhang likes to play big. With an estimated production budget of 600 million yuan, The Flowers of War is China’s most expensive film yet.The film is also aimed to take the international market. It’s set for runs beginning December 23 in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, with a wider release to follow next year.And the film will represent China for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 84th Academy Awards next year.StoryBegins in the rubble of Nanjing after the fall of the city to the Japanese on December 13, 1937. This film is a conscious bid to make the horrors of the Nanjing story dramatically accessible to a wider audience.It places a politically unaligned American mortician John Miller (Christian Bale) in the middle of a desperate group of local civilians comprised of convent schoolgirls and courtesans.
