Shortest celebrity marriages
The Lord of the Rings trilogy. The amount of time before I need an oil change. My cell phone’s battery charge. What do all of these things have in common? They are all longer than Kim Kardashian’s marriage to Kris Humphries.The world wasn’t terribly surprised when Kim Kardashian announced her divorce to Kris Humphries on Monday morning.This isn’t Kim’s first divorce rodeo, either. She was married to record producer Damon Thomas for four years. By Hollywood standards, that’s actually a reasonable amount of time.But now, Kim will join the ranks of plenty of other celebs who divorced shortly after walking down the aisle. Here are the shortest celebrity marriages of all time.Tom Green and Drew Barrymore: 5 Months: In a much less serious engagement, Drew Barrymore elopedwith funnyman Tom Green in March 2001. We all scratchedour heads. Then, the two split after only five months, citingirreconcilabledifferences. But hey, it lasted longer than Drew Barrymore’s first marriage. She married Jeremy Thomas in 1994, and the two ended it after only 29 days. Maybe her next marriage will reach a year!Kid Rock and Pamela Anderson: 4 Months: Kid Rock and Pamela Anderson married on a yachtin St. Tropez on July 29, 2006. It only lasted four months. They really should’ve gotten matching tattoos. That would’ve definitely made things last.Jennifer Lopez and Cris Judd: 4 Months: J.Lo met Judd while the two were filming her music video for Love Don’t Cost A Thing. They married and then splitless than six months later. After their divorce, Judd said Lopez was the “love of his life. I was married to the love of my life and now I have to find that love again,” Judd claimed.Nicolas Cage and Lisa Marie Presley: 3 Months: After 108 days of wedded bliss, Lisa Marie decided to call it quits. “We shouldn’t have been married in the first place,” Presley said. “It was a big mistake.”Britney Spears and Jason Allen Alexander: 2 Days Britney shocked the world when she eloped with her childhood friend in 2004. The couple annulledthe marriage after 55 hours.
