Cao Cao evolving from sinner to saint
CAO Cao in Peking Opera has a face painted white, which symbolizes "treachery". A recent TV drama the Three Kingdoms, however, turns the classic "bad guy" into a good guy. Behind this reinvention, experts say, is a changing value system in China.Chinese view of Cao Cao mainly comes from Ming Dynasty novelist Luo Guanzhong’s  The Romance of the Three Kingdoms. In the story, Cao Cao, a minister during the late Eastern Han Dynasty, is depicted as an evil conspirator. Meanwhile, Liu Bei, the founder of Shu kingdom, and his two sworn brothers Guan Yu and Zhang Fei are good guys who unite to revive the legitimate throne of the Eastern Han Dynasty.Chen Xi, a 21-year-old at Wuhan University, likes to play Three-Kingdoms-themed games, but he never takes on the role of Cao Cao. "Cao is a bad guy. I knew it from the first bedtime story my parents told me," he said. However, the new TV drama directed by Gao Xixi is putting a new spin on the story. Cao Cao is still a warlord, but he’s no longer as treacherous. He starts from scratch and strives to leave his mark on history. Experts say this depiction of Cao’s character is a reflection of a changing value system in China."It reflects progress in people’s understanding of history, and also progress in people’s worldview," said Ao Yichang, a professor in the Chinese Department at Chongqing University. "For a long time, people drew a clear line between good and evil - the good guys were perfect, while the evil guys were all nasty. Now it’s time to correct the ’irrational’ perception of Cao."An on-going poll on ifeng.com shows that over 27 percent of respondents choose Cao Cao as their favorite character in the story, only second to Zhao Yun (30 percent), Liu Bei’s general famous for bravery. Traditional "good guy" Liu Bei, however, gets only 3 percent of the votes. Qian Kai, a 19-year-old at China University of Science and Technology, welcomes the new depiction of Cao Cao."I know he did wrong things, like killing an innocent official to maintain his authority in the army, but it was his legacy that enabled China to be united once again during the Jin Dynasty," said Qian. "I think he made more of a contribution to history than Liu Bei did."Zhang Yiwu, a Chinese professor at Peking University, says that this warming to Cao Cao shows that people are now more tolerant of human beings’ flaws. "They tend to understand that flaws don’t stop the great from being great. Likewise, the evil figures in legends or history also have their shining light."Why the change?According to Zhang, inequality in current society has helped to shape many young people’s more rounded view of human nature. They understand that people may have to be realistic and make down-to-earth decisions.Globalization has also contributed to the shift, said Zhang. "Knowledge about diverse cultures opens up people’s mind and enables them to perceive things from different angles. The trend is unstoppable."However, Ye Kuangzheng, a cultural critic, warned in The Beijing News last week that this trend poses great danger to society. By downplaying traditional values, like loyalty, intelligence and bravery, people may slowly alter the Chinese identity. Re-interpreted classics should not divert from the fundamental Chinese value system, Ye wrote. Otherwise, "we will only worship utilitarianism, which I hope won’t be the case in the new version of the Three Kingdoms."
