Arranged lovers still satisfy
The time when dating shows created celebrities is over. Now we have moved into the next stage: celebrities date or even get married on TV.“We Are in Love”, which premiered on April 19 on Jiangsu TV, was adapted from Seoul Broadcasting System (SBS)’s “We Got Married”. It pairs up celebrities to show what life would be like if they fell in love.Cross-national couple Liu Wen, a Chinese model, and Choi Si-won, a member of South Korean band Super Junior, is the most eye-catching paring.Choi, hailing from the country that first created this television formula, obviously knows well what audiences expect. For their first date, the handsome hunk chose a white church and prepared beautiful flowers and exquisite gifts. He even learned to say “you are beautiful” in Mandarin from his Chinese teammate in advance, although his mentor plays a trick on him.An article from Guangzhou Daily credited the popularity of “We Got Married” to the flawless relationship and marriage it displays. “It stimulates audiences’ longing for a relationship like that,” says the article.In “We Are in Love”, Choi and Liu show a perfect example of ideal dating. When they first met, Liu strutted down the imaginary runway to Choi wearing a casual yet trendy dress from Stella McCartney and carrying a limited edition Chanel cosmetic bag. Then on Choi’s birthday, Liu learned to cook noodles for her partner, wearing a gorgeous dress that was a gift from Choi.We all know nothing about these relationships is authentic. But scenes showing two adorable-looking people sharing romantic moments together just make us wish they were.“It was a combination of the pairs pretending to really be in love and the fact that we all knew it couldn’t be true that kept us all watching, waiting, and hoping that virtuality could become reality,” K-pop site Mwave wrote.Another couple in the show, actress Ruby Lin and actor Ren Zhong, however, are still looking for the right tempo. Some viewers believe it’s because of Ren, a typical northern man who is conservative and knows little about romance.But maybe it’s their awkwardness that gives us a sense of reality about the show. Wu Qiaoya, 27, an enthusiastic fan of Korean TV shows, said: “The embarrassing atmosphere between Lin and Ren reminds me of when I went for a blind date, while Liu and Choi’s dates are what I dream of.”
