Bashful but bold
Bai Jingting may come off as bashful and reserved in person, but his character in the new movie Yesterday Once More (《谁的青春不迷茫》), which premiered on April 22, shows a different side of the actor.In the movie, the 22-year-old plays a high school punk named Gao Xiang, who doesn’t get along with the class’s top student, Lin Tianjiao. Lin loathes him for dawdling around, and he scorns her for trying too hard to appear perfect while neglecting her true desires. As you might expect, the two end up falling for each other.“Most of the time, I’m more like Qiao Ran [one of his earlier characters from the web series Back in Time (《匆匆那年》,2014)]. I tend to keep things to myself and be a listener,” said Bai. “But I can be active when I’m with close friends. Portraying Gao drew out this part of me, and I’m actually trying to be more like him in the future.”Just like Gao, Bai follows his heart. As a senior at Capital Normal University, Bai majored in recording arts, but he gradually began to realize it wasn’t what he really wanted to do in life. So he transferred to a different path － and became an actor.He spent his first summer vacation during his freshman year sending resumes, going to interviews, and getting trained at a South Korean show business company. It was not long before he got the opportunity to interview for Back in Time.But becoming an actor wasn’t just a momentary whim. “I’ve been interested in acting since high school, when I was trained for both music and acting. I would ponder the details I saw when watching films, and sometimes I would even get stuck in the mood of a character,” said Bai.No longer just an audience member, Bai recently had the opportunity to explore what goes on behind the silver screen. Yesterday Once More is Bai’s first experience with movie acting, and he says his experience on set was dramatically different from his previous acting experiences. “When we were shooting the online series, we were always rushing to get ahead without reflecting on our acting,” said Bai. “But with movies, it’s much more serious. We frequently get together to rehearse again and again, to polish our acting.”Bai said he had periods of doubts and confusion about this decision, but he is positive now because he sees the importance of following his own dreams rather than staying on a pre-set path. “Achieving prosperity and fame isn’t the only definition for ‘success’,” he said. “Keeping yourself happy is also a kind of success, and only by doing what you really like will you achieve that.”
