Top 10 cover female stars of 2010
In addition to films, awards and advertisements, magazine covers are also an important yardstick to measure an actress’ ranking and popularity. In the special, we have compiled the shiniest female cover stars of 2010 according to their cover appearances on the Chinese editions of Vogue, Elle, Cosmopolitan, Marie Claire and Harper’s Bazaar.1. Zhou XunAfter acting and promoting four films in 2009, Zhou Xun, China’s top-class actress, slowed her pace and shifted her focus of work this year. Zhou spends much of her time promoting ‘tips for green living’ through Our Part, a campaign she runs jointly with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Zhou’s enduring efforts in promoting a green life style and environmental sustainability has earned her the title of the 2010 Champion of the Earth, the United Nations’ highest award for environmental leadership. Her superb mastery of acting has gained numerous Best Actress awards and won wide appreciation from famous directors. In 2011, Zhou will continuously stay active in various environmental causes and make perfect performances on the screen.2. Zhao Wei2010 was a rewarding year for Zhao Wei, one of the most popular actresses in China. Not only did Zhao welcome the birth of her lovely daughter, but also won the Best Actress Award of Hundred Flowers Film Festival. Though having shifted focus from work to family, the 34-year-old actress refuses to be a full-time housewife and resumed her performing career after confinement. The 10-year ups and downs in show business have maturated this once-flamboyant sensation to a rather composed celebrity. Impressing the public with her radiant maternity and femininity, Zhao will smartly balance her roles as mother and actress.3. Li BingbingLate-blooming Li Bingbing, one of the A-list actresses in China, adds brilliance to her achieved splendor in 2010 after she was crowned the Best Actress Award in 2009’s Golden Horse Film Festival. Thanks to her healthy and refined public image, Li became a favorite of magazine covers and brand advertisements. Li’s well-recognized efforts in environmental protection and green campaigning have earned her the title of UNDP China National Goodwill Ambassador. Li’s performance on the screen is also worthy of expectation; her consummate acting in Snow Flower and the Secret Fan and The Revolution Of 1911 will give impetus to the box office success.4. Zhang ZiyiEarly 2010 “Donation Gate” had entangled famous actress Zhang Ziyi into an unprecedented credit crisis, stagnating her performing career and ceasing her brand advertisement contract. To regain her position in public favor, Zhang made great changes in her conduct with a much lower profile and down-to-earth attitude. Zhang hoped her fully-devoted acting and resolution to philanthropic undertaking will efface the dirt of her reputation. This year Zhang’s two films, The Grand Master and Life Is a Miracle, are due to hit the cinemas; we will see whether this controversy-stricken actress will radiate her stardom again.5. Fan BingbingAn overwhelmingly beautiful face eclipses Fan Bingbing’s conscientious acting; while the 29-year-old actress aspires to reverse the public’s cynical impression with the Best Actress Award of the Tokyo Film Festival. At the center of controversy for a long time, Fan has reconciled herself to the fabricated “charges” and hopes to silence the critics with her professional dedication and low-profile conduct. Apart from her performing career, Fan is also actively engaged in philanthropic undertakings. In 2010, Fan’s loving compassion for children who suffer from congenital heart defects rekindled their hope with a 500,000 yuan donation. Just like the plum flower going through hazards and hardships, Fan just bursts into full bloom.
