Great minds meet at salons
Sunlight filtered through the curtains. Chants from the Book of Songs filled the café.A woman stood in front of an audience of 10 people, sharing her appreciation of the beauty of poetry.Members of the audience each had a cup of tea. Each agreed with the speaker or aired their different points of view.In the shopping mall nearby, people spent their weekend in the hustle and bustle of shops and restaurants.In the café, the discussion group slowed down their pace of life.Guo Xin, 26, is one of them. Guo has worked in the advertising industry for four years since graduating from college.She is always rushing to meet deadlines and customers keep changing their requirements.Guo said: “I’m stressed. I cherish my college days when I was able to read poetry in the morning. It put my mind at ease.”Many college students and young white-collar workers relieve stress by singing loud songs at karaoke bars or getting drunk at dinner.But an increasing number of young people have turned to public salons. These events are usually held in cafés.Besides relieving stress, young people are able to acquire knowledge about new subjects and find kindred spirits at the same time.Hu Wei is the organizer of the public salon at Story Garden Café in Beijing. Hu has designed a series of courses for people in the culture industry or those who are interested in it.The courses include workshops on editing books, on photography, drawing, reading, and a variety of interesting topics.Hu explained the inspiration for the public salon: “Like many workplace newbies, during the first three years of my career, I felt I lacked knowledge and skills and wanted further training.“But it’s not easy to go back to university. Neither is it attractive to ?blow big bucks on quick training courses.”Reducing the cost of learning is an important reason behind the boom in public salons.Huang Mou, 22, a fresh college grad, came up with the idea of inviting grass-roots experts online to be lecturers.“A lecturer doesn’t necessarily need to be a big name. Anyone can be an inspiring lecturer as long as he or she probe into a specific area deep enough,” said Huang.And he has discovered many such grass-roots experts on douban.com.So Huang established Open Douban Courses this January. Having read Huang’s notice, some douban.com users have volunteered to be the lecturers for various topics: Western literature, Chinese history, dance culture, and psychology.They share book lists online, and give lectures at offline activities at cafés.Last Saturday, nearly 100 college students and white-collar workers, Chinese and foreigners, crowded the 3 Club in Beijing.They had an enjoyable time discussing Chinese history at Huang’s public salon.Liang Shuang, 25, was among them. She has studied computer science throughout her seven college years and is now working in the IT industry.“I don’t want to see my life revolving around IT only,” Liang explained why she attended the salon.Huang himself was upset by college education when he was at school. “College education is quite specialized, focusing on a specific major. We actually need more liberal arts courses,” said Huang. “It would terrify me to think I knew nothing other than my major and my job. I would be living like a machine.”Jiang Hui, 22, a student from Beijing Foreign Studies University, has wide interests. She cannot find relevant optional courses or school clubs for some interests.Even if there is one, Jiang still finds public salons more attractive.“At public salons, I can meet people from all walks of life, not only students. It’s more interesting and inspiring to talk to different people,” said Jiang.Jiang is ambitious for a career in the field of intellectual property rights of high-end brands.She has met people from arts design and fashion marketing industries at salons. They have offered useful inside information.Ji Peng, the organizer of New Knowledge Salon in Beijing, agrees that public salons are a good place for social-networking.“Only those who share similar interests will attend a specific public salon,” said Ji. “You will enjoy a lasting friendship with people with common interests.”
