Beloved shows return
Here is something to make you feel the elapse of time keenly: It’s been 12 years since the TV show Friends went off the air. Disney’s High School Musical had its last installment eight years ago. And a decade has passed since the Chinese sitcom My Own Swordsman (《武林外传》) debuted its last episode.Each one of these three TV series became a cultural phenomenon, and coincidentally, all three recently announced cast reunions. This will give audiences everywhere a chance to reminisce about the shows’ glory days and enduring appeal.None of these shows started out with a big production budget or a well-known cast. No one expected these three dramas to be something great. But they exceeded people’s expectations. Friends, for instance, had its cast perform in a cheesy studio, but it overcame its poor production value by having a relatable, easy-going spirit. The way My Own Swordsman and High School Musical tell their stories is creative even for present-day television.Since Friends debuted in 1994, viewers have dreamed of hanging out with a bunch of friends in Central Perk cafe, like the characters did. The show helped develop the idea of “friends as family”. But deep down, Friends derives its charm from its realistic depiction of 20-something life, according to Anne T. Donahue, a columnist for The Guardian.The plot is simple: Six, ordinary protagonists strive for success, and pursue love and happiness in life. “From the second Monica ushered Rachel into the world of poverty, dead-end jobs and quarter-life crises, the series became a beacon for flailing 20-somethings everywhere,” Donahue wrote in The Guardian.For Chinese audiences, Friends is valued for another reason. Its clear pronunciation, authentic expressions and rich depiction of American culture make it a good English-learning material. There are even books dedicating to breaking down its script and language points.While Friends impresses its audience with its heartfelt stories, My Own Swordsman and High School Musical take unconventional routes to tell their stories.My Own Swordsman’s appearance in 2006 was a breath of fresh air for its genre. The period sitcom includes distinctly modern elements. Though it is centered on the kinds of swordsman archetypes found in many martial arts novels, My Own Swordsman actually uses history to touch on current affairs. Its plots reflect contemporary problems like property speculation and real estate development. Its six protagonists also speak in different dialects, creating bonds with audiences from different regions.High School Musical similarly propelled Disney’s TV movies into a new era, one that was defined by more music, according to Kelly Connolly, a TV writer.“The catchy soundtrack turns clichés into a form of art, transforming the way we’d all hear ... for years to come,” Connolly wrote on Entertainment Weekly.
