Breezy summer sandals
You may have chic skirts, stylish shades, and versatile hats that will keep you looking cool this summer, but don’t forget about this seasonal staple — sandals.Slipping into a pair of sandals to let your feet and toes breathe is definitely necessary in this blazing time of year. Whether you feel bored with your old sandals or are looking for something new that will let you put your newly pedicured toes on display, here are some trendy sandals you can wear to waltz through the streets in style.Delicate gladiator sandalsFor fashionistas who are looking for bold and eye-catching summer footwear, gladiator sandals might be your new best friend. This style of shoe has deep roots in history, with its bold design being associated with the ancient Roman military. This year, the gladiator trend is coming back again with new designs. Along with the classic gladiator sandals released by German brand Hugo Boss, French fashion house Chloe has given the sandals wedge heels and knee high strap ties, while Italian brand Valentino remade the sandals with zippers. To make onlookers’ eyes pop, Glamour magazine encourages you to wear your gladiators with printed dresses, jean shorts or denim skirts.Creative flatsMany fashion aficionados are gravitating toward flats, among them US actresses Anne Hathaway, 32, and Jennifer Lawrence, 24, have been spotted strolling around in flats recently. As one of the best alternatives to painful heels, flats never go out of style as far as trendy sandals go, and this year is no exception. But there are new and creative twists, as always. Cutout flats, classic pointy-toe flats and colorful flat sandals stand out, fashion website fashionisers.com notes. Unlike most high-heeled sandals, flats look chic while still being comfortable to wear.Feminine platform sandalsPlatform sandals are known for their elongating effect and the comfort their chunky soles offer. Called one of this season’s hottest shoe styles by Bazaar magazine, these sandals are coming back this season in materials ranging from shimmery and colorful fabric to natural leather. These shoes might look intimidating, but they are actually easy to wear. To enhance your feminine look, Bazaar magazine advises you pair these sandals with pastel floral prints, a ladylike shoulder bag as well as a necklace appropriate to your look.Versatile block heel sandalsBlock heel sandals are huge this season not only because they were spotted in New York Fashion Week but also because stylish celebrities such as US singers Taylor Swift, 25, and Emmy Rossum, 28, favor them. Similar to most flats, block heel sandals are also comfortable because of their squared heels. Even better, they are versatile. US entertainment website hollywoodlife.com suggests girls who want to make a personal statement try to contrast colorful block heels with tailored shorts or jeans. Girls who are looking for a classic look can wear ankle-strap block heel sandals with summer dresses.
