Mimic a model pose
FOR some, myself included, dancing is something best left to those who don’t possess three left feet. I know, it’s more usual to say “two left feet” but, in my case, my brain must also be included. It simply refuses to supply my body with a sense of rhythm.You see, voguing, a dance consisting of a series of stylized poses in imitation of fashion models, can only be done by professionals or extremely cool people. I, unfortunately, will never be in either category.Of course, a professional dancer can carry off a decent vogue, as long as it suits their image. Madonna is probably the most notable voguer, with her 1990 song and video, Vogue.In the video, Madonna struck a series of angular poses in the vogue style, and sent the popularity of the form skyrocketing among a new generation.Recently, Jolin Tsai took things further on her latest album Myself, which is very much in the vogue style. Rather than simply striking the occasional vogue pose, Tsai vogued all the way through her video Honey Trap, creating another sizzling chapter in the ever-evolving vogue story. Tsai is similar to Madonna in the way she consistently re-invents herself and her image with every new album. Yoga is another theme that unites the two star singers. No wonder each has such a knack for staying in vogue.Vogue dancing started back in the Harlem ballrooms of the early 1930s. You can imagine the scene: hip and happening, smoky and full of the energy of a new musical revolution.Swing jazz was in the air, the new stars of that form were emerging and all the cool cats were voguing like crazy. How can one possibly compete with such style and panache? It’s better not to try.Tsai isn’t the only one to have caused a recent vogue sensation. The online video of a rather overweight boy named Qiu Yucheng voguing went down a storm with many netizens. I myself was less than impressed. Voguing is supposed to be about evolution, style and grace, not ghastly online parodies of an existing dance form.Take a leaf out of my book, kid: if you can’t add to it–and do so with style–keep your left feet firmly on the ground.
