Toon time is not PC, say experts
Not to ruin your happy childhood memories, but cartoons may not be so innocent as they appear to be. The SmurfsThere is a place where neighbors are always willing to lend a hand, where everyone lives without money and employs their individual skills for others.But before you start checking out property prices in the area, you need to know that the neighbors are all blue and they live in mushroom-like houses.Smurf society has been seen by many as a metaphor for communism which emphasizes co-operation and the common good.But could The Smurfs really offer a model for good society? Probably not. The cartoon is now under fire for being sexist–out of 105 Smurfs there are only three females. Smurfette, who debuted in a 1966 Smurfs comic book strip, was the only woman in the village until Sassette and Nanny Smurf were introduced in 1981.Willem de Graeve, director of the Belgian Comic Strip Center in Brussels, explains that The Smurfs, created in 1958 by the Belgian artist Pierre Culliford, is influenced by the Catholic Church of 1950s Belgium.“That was a totally different era, when there was a very strong separation of genders in Belgium. It was not the done thing to show boys and girls having adventures together,” Graeve told the BBC News.Winnie The PoohIt’s hard to believe, but Canadian researchers find that Winnie The Pooh and his forest friends in the Hundred Acre Wood are actually suffering serious mental disorders.Winnie The Pooh: Eating Disorder. His constant quest for food and the discarded honey pots all around his house are evidence of his disorder.Rabbit: Obsessive Compulsive Disorder. Rabbit is always worried about how things look and goes back and forward to make sure things are in order. He’s obsessed with how the carrots are arranged and with keeping his house in order.Tigger: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. Tigger can’t sit still. He is always bouncing from one thing to the other. He is always distracted, and has no conscience. For example, he messes up Rabbit’s garden and could not care less.Piglet: General Anxiety Disorder. He is always scared and anxious about everything, which is apparent in the way his ears twitch.Nearly 5 million American children and adolescents suffer from a serious mental disorder, according to the US Surgeon General.Tom and JerryDo you remember the heavy-set middle-aged black maid Mammy Two Shoes in Tom and Jerry, whose life consists of cleaning up around the house and threatening to throw Tom out?Well, she is one of the reasons why the classic cartoon is criticized for being racist.Also, there are scenes featuring Tom or Jerry with their faces blacked up, a style of entertainment based on racist Black stereotypes in the 1940s.For example, to impress a female cat, Tom grabs Jerry and blows cigar smoke in his face, giving Jerry a black face.And every time Tom gets blown up with dynamite his face is shown with red or orange lips and a black face.Some scenes featuring black faces were later edited out, and the character of Mammy Two Shoes got a complete makeover–she was changed into a Caucasian woman. 
