Student talk show becomes online hit
It might sound silly, but three Chinese students studying in the US have managed to shoot to fame simply by chatting with each other.Sun Yuchen, 23, who majored in East Asian studies at the University of Pennsylvania, has always dreamed about launching a TV station or a newspaper. But this dream is still a long way away. So how about a talk show, like Phoenix TV’s Behind the Headlines with Wentao, he thought.Sun shared his idea with Gui Jiaxun, 22, a double major in engineering and business at the University of Pennsylvania, and Hou Bocheng, 22, an economics major who graduated from Temple University in 2012. They were intrigued by his idea.Since Sun had always dreamed about working in the media industry and had done an internship at Nanfang Weekend, he was selected to host the program like Dou Wentao on Phoenix TV.In their first three episodes, the three students talked about big issues like racial discrimination in the US and intellectual property rights. But the audience’s response was lacklustre.“We thought, maybe the topics were too common or not relevant enough to our target audience — young Chinese back at home,” says Sun.Analyzing their problem, Sun realized that they are in a completely different cultural surrounding and that it might be better to take the approach of a cultural comparison talk show aiming to let more Chinese understand US society and culture. This change of direction turned out to be an ace.What is the American attitude toward yellow traffic lights? Which Chinese actress is most attractive in the eyes of Americans? What can you do with $100 (613 yuan) in the US?These are some of the topics that resulted in several million hits on their program, the episodes of which were uploaded to major video websites like Youku.com and Tudou.com. Discussions of the videos also took off.For Sun, another important aim of the program is to offer viewers an insight into the daily lives of foreigners. He believes that as a developing country, China can learn a lot from other countries.In an episode about running yellow lights in the US after a new traffic regulation was introduced in China, the three students shared their experience of driving in the US and discussed many interesting details of US automobile culture and how driving in the country is regulated.Soon after launching their show, it became one of the most viewed programs in the people and society section of the host websites.But according to Sun, their mentality toward making the program has changed since they became “famous” online.“Initially, our program was aimed at expressing our own thoughts and views, but now, with millions of Chinese watching and discussing it, it has become a source for public discussions,” Sun says. “We want to inspire young Chinese and raise their awareness of various issues so that we can finally make our own country a better place.”
