Breaking boundaries
At 1 am on Nov 6, queues of people started to form in front of a building in Shanghai. *Passersby would be forgiven for thinking that the crowds were gathering for the release of the latest iPhone, however, they just wanted to buy a ticket for the Nov 11 release of Ang Lee’s new film, Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk. The last time people had shown this much interest in a movie was with Avatar, released in China back in 2010.But it wasn’t the fact that Lee is an Oscar-winning director that drove people to wait overnight, rather that he’s a game changer.There is nothing hugely remarkable about the film’s *storyline itself, which sees 19-year-old soldier Billy Lynn return home to the US from Iraq, struggling with a mental disorder. What makes the movie stand out is the way it was shot, with Lee using an immersive 3-D process where the film is presented at 120 *frames per second.“I learned so much about cinema,” Lee said of this breakthrough to Boston Herald. “With 120 frames per second, I got something new. So I think it’s great.”Films are not actually moving images but are made up of still pictures that are shown at 24 frames per second, with our brains seeing these as one continuous image. For the past 90 years we have been watching films made this way, but by speeding things up to 120 frames, details such as the movement of a pair of eyes is presented in lifelike detail by Lee.“When I left this incredible experience, I was shaking and terrified, as though I had actually had that experience,” US film director Doug Trumbull told the IndieWire website after he watched Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk.However, this is not the first time that the Chinese-born director has pushed cinematic *boundaries.His Oscar-winning film Brokeback Mountain (2005) was one of the first LGBT-themed movies to be a mainstream success. And in Life of Pi (2012), Lee used computer-generated imagery and 3-D technology together, winning him another Oscar.But it seems not everyone appreciates his efforts. Only a handful of movie theaters around the world have *updated their equipment to show Lee’s latest release in all its fast-framed glory, with China being home to two of those. Audiences have also questioned whether it was necessary to shoot a film in such an unusual way when they are just fine with watching films made at the traditional speed.Lee has his own beliefs, though. “I’m 62 years old, but I’m still growing,” he said during the film’s Beijing *premiere on Nov 6. “I want to be the ‘guinea pig’ to test the possibilities of films, even if it sometimes means ‘challenging’ audiences’ old habits.”
