Bringing sexy back
Not many people could have predicted that Australian actor Chris Hemsworth would be named People Magazine’s new Sexiest Man Alive. Look at last year’s title-winner Adam Levine: his 25 tattoos, hot Victoria’s Secret angel wife (and several super models exes), naked portrait for Cosmopolitan, and even his bromance with The Voice co-star Blake Shelton… Everything about the rock band’s lead vocalist speaks to the traditional concept of sexy.As for the 31-year-old Thor star, family man might be his most significant tag. Unlike other typical Hollywood heartthrobs, Hemsworth has been steadily building a family since he tied the knot with Spanish actress Elsa Pataky at 27. The couple has now got three adorable kids.What makes him so steamy? Well, maybe we need to redefine sexy first.An article in Slate magazine listed the standards for People’s Sexiest Man Alive of this moment: “… straight, mid-30s, handsome to women, relatable to men, mired in no known scandals, famous enough to have starred in a blockbuster film or high-rated television show in the past year.”It’s hard to deny Hemsworth’s sexy physical appearance, with his masculine face, blonde hair, blue eyes, and of course, muscular body. Yahoo Health put together a piece on other celebrities with similar facial features including Daniel Craig and David Beckham and concluded they are all ruggedly handsome men’s men.Aside from good looks, a successful career adds most to a man’s charm. After being a handsome background actor in movies for several years, in 2011, Hemsworth got the opportunity of a lifetime to play a magic hammer-wielding god in superhero movie Thor. In 2013, he starred in the sequel. Dedicated actor that he is, the Australian put on 9 kilograms to fit in the role of Thor, and then kept a diet of less than 600 calories a day for his role in the movie In the Heart of the Sea, which will be released in 2015.Hemsworth has also avoided the negative press associated with celebrities who pursue a party lifestyle. He revealed in his interview with People that he’d rather be with his wife and three kids when not working.It seems he’s a perfect fit for the new sexy. And the man has more: he’s funny. When answering talk show host Jimmy Kimmel’s question about what it feels like to be the Sexiest Man Alive, Hemsworth couldn’t help but joke, “I’m most excited about the ‘alive’ portion of that statement, and the ‘sexy’ is a bonus.”
