Styling for success
For a girl who’s interested in fashion, what would be the dream job? Being a model? Probably no–that’s for a pencil thin who doesn’t eat. One answer is, fashion stylist.As more brands open stores in China to expand their reach, the increase in outdoor advertising might light a stylist spark in a girl’s heart. Fashion magazine offices are crowded with interns, and fashionable brand HR managers get thousands of resumes of people looking for a stylist position."It looked too high before, but now I find it more approachable," said Xue Rui, 22, a Fudan University Chinese literature grad who works as an assistant stylist at Hermès in Shanghai. "There is no certain principle in dressing up models, and you can try every way with your own distinct taste to make them pretty and attractive."Some professionals say that Xue’s not mistaken. "My gut feeling is that fashion has stopped being so elitist. People have learnt that fashion can be a multimillion-dollar business, and with that you have to have a certain approachability," Katie Grand, a stylist and magazine editor based in London, told the London Times. The attractiveness of this line of work is not only in the fabulous clothes. And it’s not like it used to be: an insider’s job with little recognition and even less money. Now it’s a career with a profile, prospects and pay packet."A stylist at a fashion magazine can have some unique rights. You have a chance to contact celebrities and dress them up in a style you like," said Cheng Hong, chief editor of the Chinese version of L’officiel Hommes magazine. "You need to cooperate with top photographers and select places around the world to take photos in. You might also be invited to fashion shows of top brands and can select some of the favorite clothes. ""The salary can allow you to buy luxury clothes and, with your name and photo appearing on pages, readers will remember your fashion tips."Girls can find it hard to ignore this allure and the field is opening up to normal girls, not only style or fashion design majors. "A fashion designer knows how to make a dress pretty, but a stylist knows how to make a person beautiful, from head to toe," explained He Qing, 21, a junior in fashion design at the Beijing Institute of Fashion Technology."You have to be ‘all-round’: from hair and make up to clothes, shoes, and accessories to the event," said He. "You have to know everything, and handle several things at the same time. It’s challenging. That’s why I love it."It’s not, however, without its downside, no matter how great you may think it is, "It’s incredibly hard work," said Chen Qianzhu, a stylist at the Chinese version of Elle magazine. "You need to build good relations with various people–stars, photographers, PR managers, other media, even airlines."You need to take care of clothes in the workplace and pay for even a tiny spot you get on them, Chen said. "The worst thing is that you might work extremely hard for a week on some serious photos, but if the chief’s not satisfied, you do them all over again."And even then, the pay’s not guaranteed. "There are far, far more starving fashion stylists–literally working for no money –than those making thousands of pounds a day," according to Sarah Mower, contributing editor to American Vogue and author of Stylist: Interpreters of Fashion.So, remember girls, you’ve been warned.
