Crack the US social scene
While many Chinese studying abroad lock themselves in the dorm, library or the comfort zone of hanging out with fellow countrymen, Miao Si has broken the cocoon and emerged as a social butterfly among her foreign peers.Miao, 19, is spending her second year at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Wisconsin, US. When she first arrived at the school, Miao threw herself into parties held by Americans. She even intentionally avoided hanging out with Chinese schoolmates.Miao explained: “Chinese on a foreign land tend to flock together. But I pay extra efforts to mingle with Americans because a person’s social circles determine their life. I want a ‘real’ US college life.”Party is big in Americans’ campus life. Fraternities and sororities hold parties with various themes every week.You can dance heartily in clubs or enjoy drinking games in a local student’s house.Miao didn’t worry about dressing up - the dress code is as casual as vest, skirt and sneakers.The part that worried her was having small talk with strangers at parties.Puzzling slang kept popping up. Boys were crazy about American football. Girls were all talking about Jersey Shore, a TV show popular in the US but unfamiliar to Chinese.There are few people who are happy to repeat themselves for you to understand what they are talking about.Facing “cold shoulders”, Miao had no other choice but to keep asking and learning. Her small-talk skills improved thanks to her party experiences and proved vital to Miao’s success in the rush for sororities at the beginning of her sophomore year.Miao rushed for 11 sororities in one night. She chatted with a member from each sorority on various topics, trying hard to find chemistry with each member. If the member feels the chemistry, you are in. If not, the picky “judges” will tell you that you are out with an impatient look.It sounds like a job interview, but is far more difficult than that.“You can google some background information about the company before a job interview,” said Miao. “But it’s impossible to know about the randomly assigned ‘interviewers’ at sororities in advance. I had to keep starting small talk to find common ground.”Miao was the only international student confident enough to rush for sororities at her university this year. And she got admitted to her favorite sorority.“Rushing for sororities is the most challenging social situation I’ve ever been through. Now I think I can handle any social situation in the future,” said Miao.
