Pitt’s ad pitfall for No 5
“It’s not a journey. Every journey ends, but we go on. The world turns, and we turn with it.” Does this sound like the opening line of a self-help book on achieving fulfillment?You’d be forgiven for thinking so. But in fact, this is just the script of the advert for Brad Pitt’s latest fragrance for women, filmed under the guidance of Atonement director Joe Wright.Pitt has shaken up the famous perfume’s format by being the first male face of Chanel No 5 women’s fragrance.Shot in black and white, with Pitt sporting long hair and a goatee, staring moodily into the camera, the TV commercial is part of a 10-million-dollar (63-million-yuan) advertising campaign. Many viewers are finding it a lot funnier than it was intended to be.It seems a far cry for Pitt, 48, who many will recall playing a consumerism-hating anarchist in the 1999 movie Fight Club. The advert has already seen spoofs by American show host Ellen DeGeneres and on the Saturday Night Live show.Putting name to fragranceBut Pitt isn’t the only star to have shaken up the industry. Many other celebrity choices for fragrances have equally mystified. US businessman and TV personality Donald Trump has had not one, but two attempts at bottling his eau de cologne.In 2004 he launched Donald Trump: The Fragrance, containing hints of mint, cucumber and black basil, packaged in a gold bottle matching his famous hairstyle. This year he launched his second follow-up cologne, Success.Perhaps the strangest of all came when the Pope himself got his very own fragrance earlier this year. Although made from a top-secret formula by Italian designer Silvana Casoli, the bottle doesn’t come with a fancy name on it–this one’s simply called The Pope’s Cologne. Unfortunately it’s exclusively for the holy man himself, meaning it won’t be hitting stores any time soon.Occasionally, however, the fragrance industry gets it right. Some may remember a captivating three-minute advert for Chanel No 5 starring Nicole Kidman, shot by Baz Luhrmann in the Style of Moulin Rouge! The advert caused quite a buzz, and no doubt helped push sales of the fragrance.It’s a shame that for Pitt, the buzz surrounding Chanel this time isn’t quite so positive.
