Learn to love reading
I’ve had a digital version of UK writer W. Somerset Maugham’s 1919 novel, The Moon and Sixpence, on my Kindle for quite some time now. I bought it because it’s a classic. But I still haven’t got around to actually reading it. For some reason, the word “classic” is daunting to me.But I changed my mind after I watched The Wonderful Read, a Chinese variety show that came out on Tencent Video on Oct 8.The show introduces The Moon and Sixpence in its very first episode. Instead of reading extracts from the book and talking about its literary value – as many other literature-themed shows do – it brings the book to life by turning it into a play. We watch as Charles Strickland, the book’s central character, leaves his wife, his children and his boring job as a stockbroker to pursue his dream of becoming a painter in Paris.But that’s not all. The show’s host and studio guests talk in depth about Strickland’s choices in between scenes from the play. He chooses to chase after his dream – “the moon” – even if it means taking risks and being called crazy and selfish. He simply can’t bear another minute of living his boring old life – to live for “sixpence” – as many of us do in real life.At that moment, I knew I was certainly going to read The Moon and Sixpence.“We are trying to provide a fitting room for the readers,” Guan Zhengwen, director of The Wonderful Read, told Beijing Youth Daily. “They can see whether a certain book is suitable for them or not.”And the choices in that “fitting room” are all classics – from novels like Love in the Time of Cholera by Colombian writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez, to non-fiction like Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind by Israeli writer Yuval Noah Harari, as well as sci-fi masterpiece The Three-Body Problem by Liu Cixin.The show helps to ease readers into these classics, so that they feel more comfortable with starting their reading journey. You can feel less daunted and more ready to pick up a book and read it yourself. I know I will.
