Stylish sweaters
Like intimate and loyal friends, sweaters accompany us through the whole winter, protecting us from the cold and keeping us warm. But this indispensable wardrobe item is about much more than function — it’s about fashion, too. The following is an introduction to a few eye-catching styles of sweaters this season.Mohair sweatersMohair refers to a silk-like fabric or yarn made from the hair of the Angora goat. It’s one of the most trendy materials for women’s sweaters this season. For example, UK designer Stella McCartney revealed a line of stylish mohair sweaters with fur trim diamonds. Soft, fluffy and shiny mohair sweaters are very comfortable, so they can be worn directly on the skin. Mohair is also better at keeping you warm than other fabrics.There is one drawback to mohair sweaters — they lose hairs. Folding your mohair sweater, placing it in a sealed plastic bag and putting it in the freezer for a few hours should solve this problem.How to wear themLoose mohair sweaters go well with leggings, giving women a slender and leisurely look. It’s also popular to wear them with pencil skirts or capri pants.Trim sweatersAnother hot trend this season is sweaters and cardigans with fur trims, which can be seen in the collections of brands like Philip Lim, Alexander Wang and Chloe. Most designers use pieces of fur located on the front of the sweater, but leather and suede trims are equally important. Italian luxury fashion house Iceberg has been successful in this aspect by mixing soft mohair with leather, which creates a nice contrast.How to wear themAdd them to some skinny jeans and ankle boots to give you a fashionable and attractive look.Print sweatersSweaters with printed images or patterns, especially stripes and animal prints, are popular this year thanks to the trend of mixing casual and dress pieces. They have gradually become a must for women, with more updated designs such as animals, quirky patterns, quotes and other statement-making designs. For example, leopard print sweaters have been in style for years and they will keep going for some time. But it’s not just any kind of leopard print — this season is all about unconventional prints, like brightly-colored ones for example.How to wear themIt’s best to wear sweaters with larger prints, such as oversized leopard spots, which creates a casual, comfortable and chic style. Also, remember to look for oversized sweaters that you can wear with skinny jeans, flat buckled boots, and a floppy felt hat.
