I am free to be myself
DURING summer vacation, the campus lapses back into tranquility as most students are away on holiday. But at some, students linger on in their dorm rooms. They don’t have an internship locally, and they’re not stuck there because they lack the cash to get them home. No, they have a loftier reason - freedom and privacy.He Jingling, 19, a design major at Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, walks half an hour to get her lunch and wash some clothes every day, instead of going home - a 40-min bus ride from school.She thinks she has a good reason. At home, her parents put limits on practically everything she does every day. It’s not just the ordinary rules like coming back home early or the amount of time spent online. Her mom also checks on her text messages and the games she plays."I don’t feel I get respect from my parents. I know they’re doing this for my good, but it’s too protective, annoying."So she’s sticking to the solo life on campus this summer, where she feels breezy and gets some relief reading a book for an entire day or sitting up on the dorm roof at night stargazing. And, of course, there are the messages from her boyfriend.He, in fact, is part of a growing number of students born after 1990 who find communicating with their parents not all that easy. According to an Wuhan University survey last year, over 40 percent of that group of students think parents tend to put too many limits on their privacy.In addition to the privacy, some like lingering on campus because they enjoy being the emperors of their realm - well, at least the dorm realm.For example, Lei Ming, 20, a management major at Renmin University, thinks that if his buddies knew what he’d done to their dorm room, they’d kill him.His roommates had no more than waved goodbye to him, than he set about turning it into a multi-functional living-dining-entertainment unit. Their beds were practically still warm when he turned the one next to his into a computer area which he uses at bedtime for an off-to-sleep movie or a brief chat with friends. Another bed now serves as a midair sofa, where he piled everyone else’s quilts and pillows for an after lunch nap and reading area. The other bed serves as a catch-all where he throws anything that’s not pretty enough for his domain."Could you do any of this when someone else is around?" Lei asks rhetorically. "I don’t think so. But this is a life I enjoy very much, all by myself, for myself."For Du Yameng, of Wuhan University’s student affairs office, it’s fairly common for students now to be more aware of personal issues and to want to defend them. "They [post-90 students] grew up in a more open and prosperous environment. Many of them have been protected and had their lives arranged by their parents," Du comments. So, some can stay in the dorm for an entire month without talking at all with anyone. That was certainly not common in previous years. "In the past, at vacation time, students who had to stay behind, for whatever reason, tended to gather in groups for sports or poker to overcome the loneliness," Du adds. "But now, students are more individual, and they have various ways of keeping updated."
