B-list reality stars shine
What’s your impression of CCTV1? In the past, it could be described as China’s national news broadcast. But now, it has added entertainment to its list of specialties.On Nov 22, the station premiered a variety show called The Great Challenge (《了不起的挑战》). Its down-to-earth style has drawn a large segment of the youth audience.The success wasn’t a predictable one. After all, The Great Challenge stars emcees Sa Beining and Hua Shao, actors Ethan Ruan (阮经天) and Sha Yi, psychologist Le Jia and comedian Yue Yunpeng. None of them are superstars or top celebrities. But the production team says it is their strategy to choose cast members based on qualities other than fame.“We want our MCs to have flaws. Their imperfections and true characters were revealed when they were put into different situations,” director Chen Di told Lanzhou Evening. It turned out that the strategy contributes to the show’s unique appeal.On Bilibili.com, a video streaming website whose users are mostly between age 18 and 22, The Great Challenge has beaten Run for Time (《全员加速中》) and Go Fighting! (《极限挑战》), in terms of the largest number of comments per episode. The audience generally discusses how different the six MCs are from their public images. Sa Beining, for instance, is known for the serious tone he takes on legal programs. But the very first episode of The Great Challenge revealed that he uses heel lifts to be taller. Similarly, Ethan Ruan used to be a heartthrob. But in The Great Challenge, he had to put on a skirt to “work” as a flight assistant. “I’ve completely abandoned my image as a handsome man,” he told Shanxi Evening News.These are only two of the embarrassing situations in the show, aimed at making the audience laugh. But The Great Challenge has a bigger ambition–to let the audience see the greatness of ordinary life.In the second episode, each MC was assigned to do an ordinary job. “It’s the scene that resonates with the audience. Everyone is contributing to the society by doing ‘simple’ jobs,” commented Yangcheng Evening News.But in some ways, these jobs were far from ordinary. Each one contained a socially conscious message. Yue Yunpeng worked for eight hours in a pit before becoming worn out. Sa Beining picked garbage on a cliff during a terrible downpour. He bowed at the end and asked the audience not to throw trash off the cliff again. “It’s an entertainment show on the surface, but you are touched and learn something in the end. That’s how The Great Challenge is superior to other shows,” wrote Yangcheng Evening News.
