Sexy and sadistic
DC Comics’ highly anticipated antihero film Suicide Squad has become somewhat of a critical flop. However, the bad feedback hasn’t stopped fans from obsessing over character Harley Quinn (played by actress Margot Robbie).Since its premiere on Aug 5, Suicide Squad has dominated the box office in North America. However, Rotten Tomatoes, an online film review aggregator, shows that the movie has received generally negative feedback, with an average rating of just 26 percent.In the plot-muddled film, the pigtail-swinging Quinn steals all the thunder. The leading (anti)heroine of the film is an accomplished *psychiatrist who later turns into a *sadistic bad girl. She’s obsessed with The Joker – the most *vicious villain in the Suicide Squad.She’s sexy, wacky and *hysterical – she looks cute but actually acts quite aggressively. In the trailer, we see her attacked in an elevator, taken by surprise. The rest of the squad wait outside ready to help but are met by a *jaunty-looking Quinn who walks out of the lift unharmed after taking down her easily overwhelmed attackers.Unlike many other supervillains in DC comic books who are firstmost bad guys, Quinn follows her own path and makes the (probably unwise) choice to join the villains’ team herself.“I think a lot of people respond to that kinetic element of her personality. She’s a great character to express personal freedom in that she doesn’t have to take any rules from anybody,” Paul Dini, Harley Quinn’s co-creator, said to the Washington Post.“It was liberating to play her, to have no rules,” Australian actress Margot Robbie told CNN. “In the position I’m in now where I have to be so careful with everything I do and say... Being Harley, she just doesn’t give a shit.”Wayward as she is, Quinn is stuck in an abusive relationship – The Joker loves her but tortures her at the same time. In a discussion on USA Today, Kelly Lawler, a devoted comics fan, calls Quinn a “plaything”. The character was actually created to “give the Joker a gang of *henchpeople”, according to Dini, who explains that DC thought that “it would be fun to have a female character in there.”Quinn is already a fan favorite, but we hope that she will develop into a more multi-faceted female role model. We’d like to see more of her inner-workings instead of being just a henchwoman. Like the line from You Don’t Own Me, the song chosen to introduce the character, says: “I’m not just one of your many toys.”Quinn has shown the great market potential of an *eccentric supervillain. Maybe a future film will see Quinn in a more central role – after all, she is the fan favorite.
