Animation icon returns
The works he’s created have been called Japan’s answer to Disney movies. The hand-drawn animation for which Hayao Miyazaki is famous creates fictional worlds that could only otherwise be found in the likes of the Lord of the Rings and the Chronicles of Narnia stories.Thought by many to be one of the world’s greatest living animators (动画师), Miyazaki, 76, announced his retirement in September 2014. But last month, Studio Ghibli, of which Miyazaki is a co-founder, confirmed that he will return to turn his short film Boro the Caterpillar into a feature. It’s expected to be released in 2019, just before Tokyo hosts the 2020 Olympic games.“Miyazaki is a person who will keep making films until he dies”, Toshio Suzuki, an experienced producer at Studio Ghibli, told Variety magazine.In many ways, Miyazaki’s works are different from popular Disney cartoons, where “there are clear distinctions between what male and female characters can achieve and how they should look”, wrote The Atlantic.But Miyazaki softens these distinctions. Many of his characters, including Princess Nausicaa of Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind (1984) and the delivery girl Kiki in Kiki’s Delivery Service (1989), are role models who defy cultural stereotypes of femininity and show women they can be anything they wish to be. Miyazaki has explained that he sees the 21st century as a complex time and we need to look again at what was once considered normal. Simple stereotypes cannot be accepted, he said, even in children’s films.Miyazaki’s characters seem real, too, because “they are shown even in their least triumphant, most ordinary moments”, according to The Atlantic. In all of his films, Miyazaki includes the mundane daily acts that many other movies – animated ones in particular – try to avoid.For example, there are characters who gaze into streams or brush their hair, not to advance the film’s plot, but to add a sense of realism. All these things are there to make fictional people seem more like human beings.And although there are mythical kingdoms and magical creatures in his movies, Miyazaki often shows his concerns on social issues. Earth’s fragility is one thing that he often features. He criticizes development and pollution. For example, Princess Mononoke (1997) shows environmentally-unfriendly villagers cutting down forests to provide fuel for themselves. The movie ends with a big battle between mankind and nature that hurts the planet.What issues will he cover in his next – and probably final – work? We’ll have to wait until 2019 to find out.
