Play your cards right
There’s always a cat-and-mouse relationship between a naughty student and a strict teacher. The student always wants to skip class, while the teacher is hot on attendance. The teacher sets a hard exam. Otherwise, the student will look to get by on as little work as possible.Art imitates life. That’s why these real-life scenarios act as the theme of a new role-playing card game, the very latest hit among college students.Xie Muyang, 19, a sophomore majoring in Japanese at Dalian University of Foreign Languages, has designed a card game called College Bang (《大学杀》) , which consists of over 150 cards which are based on real incidents taken from campus life.Opponents adopt the roles of teachers and students respectively, and student union leaders are planted as undercover spies to make the game more intriguingThe game won millions of online followers, who raved about how it reminded them of their campus life. Also, Xie’s “strategy tips” on each card summarize essential campus survival skills.We interview upperclassmen and teachers to test if such strategies can direct you toward success in the game of real life.Roll callA mean teacher will call the roll frequently. However, it may be safe to skip class when there’s no roll call.Rule explained – “Some teachers call the roll only a few times throughout the whole semester. But once you miss one, your final mark suffers greatly, even though you have a good overall attendance record,” Xie complained.But according to Yang Min, an English teacher from Shanghai International Studies University, teachers don’t only count on attendance records to decide on a student’s final grade. The changing method of college graduation increasingly involves in-class participation. “All class discussions and group projects need your presence. Even if you manage to find a buddy to cheat in the head count for you, he cannot replace you in the class activities,” Yang said. “So, just be there yourself.”Giving hints for examsAlways attend the last lecture of a semester when the lecturer will summarize all of the key points.Rule explained – The last lecture of each course is always well attended.  Guys turn up for valuable exam tips. But Wang Yaxi, 21, finds that his teachers are less than generous in telling students which questions will appear in the final exam. Wang is a sophomore in international journalism at United International College of Beijing Normal University and Hong Kong Baptist University.However, one of Wang’s classmates came up with a cunning plan: She went to ask the teacher for help after each class. Then she pieced together what the teacher had focused on during each “study session”. Bingo!But Yang poured cold water on this idea. She pointed out that the assumption that a teacher would favor certain students by giving them exam hints was likely to be wrong. Wang’s classmate may subconsciously make progress through such efforts, said Yang. Moreover, the reason why fewer and fewer teachers will highlight the key points before exams is, again, related to the changing formats of many courses.  “Good class participation will lead you to the secrets of the final exam,” said Yang. FriendshipMy buddy not only shares cigarettes with me, but also all of those happy memories. This card can help you to solve every problem. Rule explained – “My buddies are my most precious gain from my college years,” Zhang Jiayang, 22, a computer science grad from Tongji University said with pride during a job interview. “If I had not met them, I would have spent my college years alone in the dorm, unhappy and silent.”Xu Han, a counselor at Zhejiang University, agrees that a classmates-based network builds the stable foundation of one’s career connections. But she advises students not to confine themselves to a small social circle. “It’s better to communicate with people who have different personalities and majors. This helps you to adapt to and learn from diverse ways of thinking,” said Xu. 
