To my wasted 20 years
“The aim of education, if there’s any, is to make people become what they want to be. Second, education should cultivate students’ imagination, creativity and critical thinking. In other words, it should bring out the unique values of human brains. Last, parents and teachers must give students sufficient rights and freedom.”As a 21-year-old college student, he published a book and invited historian and scholar Yi Zhongtian to write a foreword. He criticized China’s education system with tart and mean words.He provoked fierce discussion online, but when asked what affected him most in the past months, he answered: “I broke my leg when I played soccer last month, and I still cannot walk now.”Zhong Daoran, a junior majoring in international economic and trade at Renmin University of China, has attracted people’s attention via his book I Don’t Forgive.In the book, he criticizes the lack of independent spirit in China’s education, and describes the essence of China’s education as a “manufacturer of talents”.Zhong himself could be taken as one of such talents. Born in Beijing and having graduated from the High School Affiliated to Renmin University of China, Zhong is a lover of art, keen on architecture, music, literature and films.“I started to ponder our educational system in high school, but couldn’t afford the time because I had to prepare for college entrance exams,” Zhong said in an interview with The Beijing News. “Later I found that college campus was no paradise – It’s even more boring than primary and high schools.”He then decided to do something “meaningful” – to write down his thoughts about China’s educational system.“The book is a review of my wasted 20 years. I want to discuss how young people should live through it, and I hope it can push forward educational reform in China,” said Zhong.He used fancy comparisons in his book. For example, “humanity is like the clothes of Lady Gaga – every piece is different and special.”This is his way to make fun of the world. “I will not forgive myself if I cannot be interesting,” said Zhong.After finishing the manuscript, he mailed it to Yi Zhongtian, out of pure nerve.“I read an article about China’s education in his blog. I found his views similar to mine. So I wondered if he would support me.”Four months later, Yi replied that he would be glad to write the foreword.The book, published in January, has brought him quick fame. But he ignores the praise and criticism.“If I really cared about feedback, I would not have written the book. Things are what they are and will be what they will be,” said Zhong, describing himself as a mild man in real life.He recited a line from his favorite writer Oscar Wilde: “I never take any notice of what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people do.”
