Are you wardrobe ready?
New season, new look. There’s nothing like the arrival of new season clothes to perk us up. It’s tempting to just run out and buy the first spring looks you see. But to avoid overspending on random purchases, it’s important to know about the updated trends for the spring season.Here, we select a few popular staples and prominent colors of this season. Get ready to snap up those essential pieces to add to your wardrobe in the coming warmer months.Tea-length skirtWhile the midi-skirt may be the ultimate transition piece, the tea-length, between midi and maxi, is for spring. The style was popular from the 1940s to early 60s, and now it’s making a comeback.As seen in the shows by American fashion houses Proenza Schouler and Alice + Olivia, different labels have brought it into 2014 in their own ways. For example, Proenza Schouler uses metallic fabric, while Alice + Olivia pairs theirs with a crop top, which offsets the length and makes wearers look taller.How to wear this style: The ladylike hemline can be just as modern as a mini-skirt. You can get the look with a breezy tea-length dress, but remember to keep it modern and sexy by baring some arm and maybe a little shoulder.Cropped jacketYes, that moto jacket from last fall will still serve you well this spring, but consider adding one of these non-moto jackets to your layering arsenal. The boxy and cropped silhouette comes in a variety of prints and textures.Thai-American fashion designer Thakoon Panichgul offers a clinical take on the style, while the fashion houses BCBG Max Azria and Rebecca Minkoff define theirs with splashes of color and texture. This should make it clear that the 1990s are back, so why not get excited about it?How to wear this style: It can pair easily with a fit-and-flare or body-con dress, tailored trousers, office-ready skirts and jeans.Shift blouseAlmost like a dressy version of a T-shirt, the shift blouse is an elegantly structured top. It may already have been in your sights for some time — now is the time to invest in one.The near-elbow-length sleeve and boxy silhouette keep the look flattering and versatile. Top designers like Calvin Klein in the US use it as part of a two-piece suit. Well-known fashion houses like Victoria Beckham, Preen and Mulberry have developed this trend as well.How to wear this style: You can use the piece to dress up jeans or shorts. If you want to have fun, go with extra details like exciting prints, luxurious textures or varied necklines.Wide-leg trousersEasy to wear and ultra-chic, billowy wide-leg trousers made a huge showing on the spring runways. As seen at shows by New Zealand fashion designer Karen Walker, English fashion designer Charlotte Ronson and American fashion designer Alexander Wang, this trend is everywhere. It’s time to let your legs breathe with a welcome respite from those figure-hugging skinnies.Don’t worry about whether you can pull them off like the tall and thin models on the runways, just look for a pair that’s leaner on the flare and higher-waist to elongate your frame.How to wear this style: Wearable with most spring pieces like crop tops, and cropped jackets, the pants also work well with heels and Oxford shoes.
