Party gets wild in ‘Rio 2’
Between Disney’s instant modern classic Frozen and Warner Bros’ globally adored The Lego Movie, the bar for animated movies has never been higher. If Rio (2011) was a perfectly entertaining animation that never aspired to be anything much more, its new sequel Rio 2 is a brighter and more cheerful continuation of the franchise.A few years after where the first film left off, macaws Blu (Jesse Eisenberg), Jewel (Anne Hathaway) and their three kids are living an ordinary life in the center of Rio de Janeiro. Soon, news of a surviving group of endangered blue macaws makes the family return to their roots with a trip into the wild jungle. And the rest of the story pretty much explains the movie’s “It’s on in the Amazon” tagline.Released during the Easter holiday in the US, Rio 2 is clearly made for family entertainment. While a common pitfall for family movies is aiming the jokes too directly at adults and forgetting to entertain their younger audiences, Rio 2 does the opposite. Children will certainly be attracted by the lovely characters and beautiful scenery — as if the film had been made in conjunction with Brazil’s Ministry of Tourism. But older audiences may struggle through the relatively predictable plotting, plus the obvious carnival and soccer references.However, there is enough color, wit and inventiveness in the film to ensure a good time for both children and adults. The evil bird smugglers of the original movie are replaced by threats to the rainforest habitat, as a group of illegal loggers encroaches on the macaws’ home in the jungle. The eco-friendly message mixed in the busy story serves as an educational factor that’s relatable to everyone.Another highlight of Rio 2 is its music. Easily recognizable Brazilian music, such as bossa nova and samba, comprised the rhythmic heart of Rio. But in the sequel, filmmakers branch out with a range of music styles, featuring pop artists including Bruno Mars and Janelle Monae, who make its music sound more contemporary.So, with a happy movie and a stylish soundtrack album as a bonus, Rio 2 makes quite an impression in today’s competitive market of animated movies.
