Zombie mash-up
As a fan of both Downton Abbey (2010-2015) and The Walking Dead (since 2010), you can imagine how excited I was when I heard about a film named Pride and Prejudice and Zombies. After all, what could be more entertaining than watching the orderly world of the British gentry get thrown into chaos by a bunch of filthy, undead villains?The film begins just as Jane Austen’s 1813 novel does: Mrs Bennet fervently informs her five daughters of the news that the rich and eligible Mr Bingley has moved to the neighborhood. But you immediately know you’re not in the same world imagined by Austen. Rather than sewing or drawing, the girls are busy polishing their guns and swords. They are all trained to combat the zombie plague that has surrounded London.The romance between Elizabeth Bennet and Mr Darcy is as tense as it is in the novel, but the film takes their war of wills a bit further. Moments that used to be filled with witty and wounding banter are replaced with scenes of actual punching, kicking and sword fighting.This is probably why the film received a lot of attention, particularly in the wake of its US premiere in February.“[It’s] an Austen adaptation that’s even more fearlessly feminist than Jane was”, wrote Alynda Wheat, senior writer at People Magazine. “Ladies are valued more for their ability to take a head shot at 20 paces than for their skills on the pianoforte.”But after the initial novelty wears off, the film starts to get a little boring. The zombie part isn’t nearly as exciting as what’s offered by the hit TV series The Walking Dead, and the romance is also undermined by the bloody theme. American Seth Grahame-Smith, a zealous fan-fiction writer, wrote the 2009 best-seller that inspired the film, and he was careful to retain the charms of Austen’s classic novel. His previous works also include Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter, another book that failed to translate well on-screen. Perhaps the film industry is not yet ready for this kind of crossover genre.“The idea to simply add zombies to the Jane Austen classic is a winning concept [...] but director Burr Steers couldn’t seem to find the sweet spot between the original and the re-imagining to make the big screen rendition work as well as it could have,” wrote Perri Nemiroff, editor of movie news website Collider.That said, this kind of mash-up is still an appealing idea, particularly for young science fiction fans. Perhaps, before long, we’ll be expecting similar productions such as something like “The Old Man and the Sea and Godzilla”, “Oliver Twist in Hogwarts”, and “A Tale of Two Cities–Zootopia and Transylvania”.
