Man of Steel: witness history in the making
These days it seems like every superhero has been given a modern makeover for the big screen — Batman, Iron Man, Spider-Man, the list goes on. So it makes sense that the ancestor of superheroes is finally up for an overhaul in Man of Steel.The latest cinematic project of the Superman mythos features Henry Cavill in the red-and-blue tights, plus a story by the Batman trilogy’s Christopher Nolan and David S. Goyer. You can judge for yourself whether the 3-D extravaganza is worth the wait when it’s released in China on June 20. But what makes this character that’s 75 years old so iconic? Why is Superman such a great hero?Zack Snyder, director of Man of Steel, gave moviegoers a little history lesson on the American superhero. “For me, he’s that perfect mix of Americana,” Snyder told USA Today. “What makes Superman and his alter ego Clark Kent the ultimate American hero is that he has reflected American culture and society, ever since his first appearance in 1938.”The following is an outline of how the character has been part of the US’ changing values and beliefs over the past decades.1930s-40sSuperman arrived at a time when World War II was going on. And when the US got involved, “America starts getting scared and here comes this giant, almost straight-from-the-flag character who’s come to save us”, Brad Meltzer, a US novelist and host of History Channel’s Decoded, told USA Today.From the late 1930s into the 1940s, he was also “a reaction to industrialization, to the power of big business”, according to US comic book writer Mark Waid. “He was created as a social agitator, a character who fought for the oppressed and the weak.”1950sIn the 1950s, Superman went from anti-authority to a sort of “uber-cop”, since the postwar era was “where Americans saw themselves as the world’s peacekeepers”, Waid told The Associated Press.1960s-70sThe 1960s and 70s saw stories that touched on the counterculture and “young people not really having a good sense of who they were or where they came from or where they were going”.When the first Superman film came out in 1978, the superhero, played by Christopher Reeve, didn’t only save the world, but Waid also found that he expressed a relaxed attitude. “He didn’t have to be histrionic, or antagonistic — because he’s Superman for God’s sake. What threatens him? We’re in a post-Watergate, post-Vietnam era, in that brief period in American history where we felt confident and almost complacent in our place in the world.”1980sThe 1980s featured Superman fighting his own hubris and self-importance, Meltzer said. The character who appeared in the Batman comic book series The Dark Knight Returns in 1986 was “a perfect reflection of Reagan politics and being a heel to the government”.1990sThe 1990s pitted Superman against not only a bad mullet but also big corporations — his archenemy Lex Luthor was even redefined as a cunning millionaire businessman. The decade also featured a memorable “Death of Superman” story line.“When he is killed, it’s almost like America, for that small moment, thinks they can do without him, that they almost don’t need him anymore,” Meltzer said. “In a strange odd way, the moment he disappears is when you hear the outcry of how much we need him again, and that’s where we are right now.”One aspect that remains timeless about Superman’s story is how his mom and dad put their son Kal-El in a space capsule as a baby before his home planet of Krypton explodes. They send him to Earth so that he can lead a good life and be of service to the world. “He’s always been the ultimate immigrant story,” Waid said.US writer Scott Snyder agrees. “His story is the story that all of us share in one way or another, depending on how far back you go in our genealogy,” Snyder told The New York Times. “What also makes him quintessentially American is he’s a superhero who looks out for all of us. You always get the sense that Superman is protecting everyone and he sees everyone as equals.”
