Hollywood’s 2009
Good newsAudiences have given Hollywood a big present in advance of Christmas -- U.S. and Canadian movie ticket sales for 2009 were expected to cross the annual $10 billion mark for the first time.Already, ticket sales have topped 2008’s $9.63 billion as moviegoers flocked to "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen," the year’s top seller in the United States and Canada and "The Twilight Saga: New Moon," among many others.Through Sunday, the total U.S. and Canadian box office stood just $36 million short of crossing the $10 billion mark, said Hollywood.com Box Office."We’re looking at some huge numbers for the next 10 days or so that will put us well over that $10 billion mark" for the year, said Paul Dergarabedian, president of Hollywood.com Box Office. He expected the 2009 total to come to more than $10.4 billion as the busy Christmas holiday unfolds.Ticket sales on Christmas Day last year were $76 million, and Dergarabedian expects this year’s total to surpass that with "Sherlock Holmes," "Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel," and "It’s Complicated" hitting theaters.Bad newsParamount’s worst fears are confirmed: "Star Trek" was the most pirated film of 2009, according to a new report.In October, the studio told the Federal Communications Commission that "Star Trek" had become a hot commodity in piracy circles. Illegal file-sharing had advanced from "geek to sleek," Frederick Huntsberry, the studio’s chief operating officer, told officials.Now, according to data from TorrentFreak, "Star Trek" was downloaded nearly 11 million times this past year, just edging "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen" (10.6 million). The films were among the biggest of the year at the box office.At the other end of the box-office scale, "Sherlock Holmes" director Guy Ritchie’s "RocknRolla" ranked No. 3. It grossed less than $26 million worldwide.Interestingly, for all the fuss about the "Wolverine" leak, the film came in at No. 9 with 7.2 million. The FBI earlier this month charged a man with violation of federal copyright law, alleging he uploaded the film to the Web last spring.The list was rounded out by "The Hangover" (No. 4), "Twilight" (No. 5), "District 9" (No. 6), "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince" (No. 7), "State of Play" (No. 8), and "Knowing" (No. 10).
