Classic sleuth goes back to roots
It’s a snowy, gloomy day, and Sherlock Holmes, dressed in his iconic Inverness cape and deerstalker cap, is on his way home to Baker Street.A new, ghostly mystery is on the super-sleuth’s mind. And that’s not the only thing that’s different about the latest episode of Sherlock.Telegrams have replaced e-mails, and Holmes now finds himself in a horse-drawn carriage instead of a cab. The hit BBC TV series, which usually takes place in the present day, has transported its characters back to Victorian London, where author Arthur Conan Doyle’s classic tales were set.The latest Sherlock special, The Abominable Bride, hit Chinese cinemas on Jan 4, and it’s a loving homage to Doyle’s original vision.Many of Doyle’s stories are spine-tinglers, full of fright and suspense. Yet, confined by its 21st century backdrop, the Sherlock series hasn’t been able to fully present some of Doyle’s gothic stories. But this time-traveling Sherlock special allows the production team to present a kind of story that was prevalent in Doyle’s era.“If you want to do a ghost story, you’ve got to go Victorian,” Sherlock show-runner Steven Moffat told Vanity Fair magazine. “There’s a lot of fog.”To adapt to Sherlock’s new Victorian setting, the show’s protagonists have made a few personality adjustments.Actor Benedict Cumberbatch’s Sherlock Holmes becomes “a little more polished” in his role as a Victorian gentleman. Meanwhile, Holmes’ sidekick John Watson, played by Martin Freeman, is “more uptight”, said Moffat.What’s remarkable about The Abominable Bride is the freedom with which it explores modern-day themes, in spite of its Victorian backdrop.Spoiler alert here! The ghostly bride turns out to be a group of betrayed women who attempt to punish their abusive male lovers and defend their rights. In other words, the bride is the idea of feminism, and her appearance coincides with the birth of the suffragettes in Victorian England.And there’s an additional twist in the story’s plot. The show’s time travel is actually a hallucination, brought on when Holmes has a drug overdose.Despite all the acclaim the show has received, some viewers have complained about the special episode’s confusing, time-jumping plot. But the key elements in Sherlock stay the same.Sherlock and Watson’ s brilliant detective work doesn’t change. And more importantly, the duo’s fast-talking friendship remains intact.“You’re Sherlock Holmes, wear the damn hat,” Watson quips, shoving the deerstalker in Sherlock’s face. It’s a familiar line, delivered in an unfamiliar setting.
