New albums spring forth
For most people spring means renewal and the start of a new year. For music fans, spring means thrilling outdoor festivals, and hot new albums.From breakthrough performers to singers without new music in a while, here we present some exciting Western music in prospect.Love Is a Four Letter WordArtist: Jason MrazRecord label: AtlanticRelease date: April 17Jason Mraz makes music for sunny days, for barefoot walks along the seashore and bike rides on nature trails. His music is organic enough to fit in a coffeehouse and sufficiently soulful to play an after-hours club.Love Is a Four Letter Word, his successor to 2008’s million-selling We Sing, We Dance, We Steal Things, picks up where the last record left off. On songs such as The Freedom Song and I Won’t Give Up, Mraz once again merges feel-good melodies and lyrics.Throughout the album, Mraz balances well, being both artistically exceptional and commercially viable. He does it with a wide smile and an infectious lilt.Little Broken HeartsArtist: Norah JonesRecord label: Blue NoteRelease date: April 30With her fifth studio album, Norah Jones explores the concept of heartbreak, investigating its unpleasant aspects with refreshing candor and sardonic wit.Albums about heartbreak certainly aren’t new, but Jones puts a fresh spin on the familiar topic. Musically, Jones brings a dark and alternative pop sound to the album. So, don’t expect any pop jazz song she used to make.However, Jones never sounds too depressed on this album. Instead, she keeps the mood fairly moderate. Heartbreak is inevitable if you love hard enough, yet Jones makes it enjoyable.Blown AwayArtist: Carrie UnderwoodRecord label: AristaRelease date: May 1When she started her career, American Idol winner Carrie Underwood came across as the friendly girl next door, with songs about Jesus and of compassion for the less fortunate.However, the cover of her fourth album depicts the modern Underwood as a supermodel heroine, and illustrates her evolution since she introduces herself as a young Oklahoma woman with a powerful voice.Unlike her peers such as Taylor Swift, Underwood hasn’t opened herself to fans through songs that reveal her personality. Instead, in this album, she has got an attitude that’s more brassy, modern entertainment.Everything in the WorldArtist: Wanting QuRecord label: Nettwerk RecordsRelease date: April 24If you are a fan of the film Love in the Buff, you must remember Qu’s song in it, You Exist in My Song ?.Now, as the first Chinese singer signed to Canadian record company Nettwerk, the Harbin-born singer releases her debut English album.Qu’s self-penned songs are largely concerned with the anguished entanglements of young love. But the 22-year-old’s powerful voice and potent presence aren’t those of a passive schoolgirl, especially in the closing Chinese tracks, where Qu’s voice is allowed far more exposure and reveals her personality.
