Queen of the screen
It’s no exaggeration to say that this year belongs to Alicia Vikander. The 27-year-old Swedish actress has risen from relative *obscurity to international stardom, appearing in four major films, including last year’s Testament of Youth, Ex Machina, The Man from U.N.C.L.E.– and her most recent, The Danish Girl.And she’s certainly not delivering *mediocre performances either, sweeping the board during the awards season. Vikander earned a best-actress nomination at the Golden Globes after playing a robot in Ex Machina. She also bagged the Oscar for best supporting actress for her role in The Danish Girl, as the wife of a transgender woman (portrayed by British actor Eddie Redmayne).“She’s terrific,” Danish Girl screenwriter Lucinda Coxon told USA Today. “It’s so great to watch a young female character on film who’s not asking for your approval, who has enormous charm and is incredibly sympathetic and winning, but is entirely her own person. And she’s not a victim. There are gains and losses for her and you *mourn the losses with her.”Those who work with Vikander credit her achievements to her dedication and precision. She spent years studying ballet, “so she’s got this *rigorous side to her,” Danish Girl director Tom Hooper told USA Today. Her fluency in English is another *testimony of the same rigor, according to Hooper.Hooper recalls the day Vikander turned up to the casting for her role in The Danish Girl. “She was so moving that I had tears in my eyes at the end of the first take. And Eddie turned to me and goes, ‘Well, there’s no great surprise about who you’re going to cast now, Hooper.’”It’s easy to expect Vikander to simply rest on her success for a while after her Oscar recognition. However, she’s trying out all sorts of roles–she’s currently starring in Jason Bourne, opposite Matt Damon, and is gearing up to play Lara Croft in the next Tomb Raider movie. She’s even set to co-star with her boyfriend, German-Irish actor Michael Fassbender, later this year in The Light Between Oceans. As Vanity Fair wrote: “Now the world is at her feet, and she’s picking out projects according to nothing but whim and personal passion.” As for the actress herself, she’s rather rational about her world domination. “You need to be fine with knowing that it all can go away,” she told USA Today.
