New Web wonders shine 2011
The first three months of 2011 have seen the emergence of a crop of new Web stars. They didn’t show off S-shaped curves or spout shameless nonsense for attention, but they have their ways to make it to stardom. Here are some of the latest sensations. See what it takes to become famous. Borrow star powerThe 10-year-old Filipino-Canadian girl Maria Aragon has become another online star, but she was not “born this way”. She uploaded to YouTube a video of her singing Lady Gaga’s new track Born This Way in February. Luckily for Aragon, the pop star saw this video, loved it, posted it on her own Twitter and within the next few seconds Maria Aragon became an international Internet sensation. The video garnered over 10 million views in five days.What’s more, Aragon was invited to join Gaga on her “Monster Ball” tour last month. She performed a duet with Gaga during the concert, and then made more headlines by making the emotional star cry. Lesson to learn: It would make things easier if you could borrow a celebrity’s star power. Be thrust into the spotlightAn otherwise normal high school boy was thrust into the spotlight after his photo hit the Internet. Sporting a really big grin that reveals about 16 teeth, the boy has been dubbed “Brother Grin” (龇牙哥) by online followers. The “Brother Grin” phenomenon took off after the photo stimulated some Photoshop fun.Photoshop experts jumped in with their mastery of the craft. They turned the boy into animation characters such as Ultraman (奥特曼), Ninja Turtle (忍者神龟), Sailor Moon (水兵月) and Calabash Boy (葫芦娃). The Photoshop party is still going on.But some people are worried that the boy might get hurt as the victim of the parodies. After all, people are not supposed to have fun at the expense of others.Lesson to learn: Stop uploading your photos onto the Web. They are not even safe in your own computer.  Image overhaulFor a very long time, folded-paper cranes have been symbols of peace and love. In Japanese legend, anyone who folds a thousand paper cranes will be granted a wish, such as recovery from illness or a long life. But a group of new paper cranes, which Internet users call “Obscene Paper Cranes” (猥琐鹤), have overhauled the image. Not only do they have two feet, which the original ones don’t possess, but they are presented in funny and mischievous poses. They run, jump, hurdle like sports star Liu Xiang, and even follow the dance movements of former South Korean pop group TVXQ (东方神起). People are having fun creating new poses for the Obscene Paper Cranes. Lesson to learn: Like they say, it’s never too late to make a difference. Push the cuteness envelopeMaru the Japanese cat is another sensation to sweep the online world. The cat is pushing the cuteness envelope. As Maru likes to poke his head through holes in paper, his owner draws stylish “haircuts” on these pieces of paper so it looks like the cat has got a new hairdo. The hairstyles range from pink Afros to black bobs to side partings and so on. And fans are relieved to see the cat safe after the earthquake. Lesson to learn: Know your strengths.
