Beefy Peng gets more meaty roles
Tanned, hunky and all grown-up – Eddie Peng  may not be the fair and handsome young idol he once was.He has changed in his latest movie, Jump, A-Shin!, which will be released on August 12 in Taiwan. The film is based upon a true story by Lin Yu-Shin, the director Lin Yu-Hsien’s brother. It tells how Lin Yu-Shin, who has a passion for gymnastics, has ups and downs in life. “It’s an inspirational and encouraging story,” Li Lieh, the producer of the movie, told Yahoo Taiwan. “I think Peng’s energetic and positive image was perfect for the role.”Peng, who has a background as a sportsman, certainly seems fit to play a gymnast. But to act like one was more difficult than he could ever imagine. “Jump, A-Shin! definitely is the most challenging movie that I’ve made in my eight years of acting career,” Peng told Taiwan media. According to Peng, it took him six months to just learn a few basic gymnastic movements, not to mention how much time he spent on the horizontal bar, hand rings and pommel horse. But all the hard work paid off. Not only has Peng been praised for immersing himself in the character, he’s also built up a strong and beefy body. “When we were at Cannes to promote the movie, young girls on the beach would stare at Peng and go, ‘Wow, beautiful body’,” Li Lieh joked on Kangxi Comes. “Just adding another ‘highlight’ to this movie.”Early in his career Peng made his name for being an idolized heartthrob. He appeared in various teenage TV dramas, such as Tomorrow , and Scent of Love . Last April, Peng expanded his career to the music industry by releasing a five-song EP. This year, Peng has been devoting himself to making movies. But the characters are different from what he used to play. In his last movie, Close to You, a sports story, Peng played a professional boxer. Is this a sign that Peng is making a transition, that he’s telling people that he’s more than just a beautiful face? “I don’t think about it that much. I just do what I love,” Peng said. “It’s those characters that I’ve fallen in love with. By playing them, I feel a great sense of achievement.”“But I know one thing for sure – I don’t want to be seen as typecast. I want to try a bit of everything. ” 
