Love lives of celebrity couples
The increasingly hot rumors about Wang Feng and Zhang Ziyi have certainly made for some interesting after-dinner discussions. The couple’s combination, a singer and an actor, only makes the news more exciting.The singer-and-actor formula is quite common in showbiz today. Two people, each with their own expertise and both living in the media spotlight, get romantically involved. It sounds like the perfect match, but these relationships, like most others, also have their highs and lows, and may not have a happy end. Here are a few examples.Throwing the public off the scentZhang Ziyi, 34 & Wang Feng, 42, ChinaEver since Wang’s divorce in mid-September, the tabloids have been reporting on the new romantic relationship between the rocker and the actress. They’ve been seen playing mahjong together, staying in a hotel room for hours, traveling to Los Angeles, and Wang sent a love message during a concert. The latest development is said to be that Zhang accompanied Wang to a family gathering late last month. Despite all the signals they are sending, neither of them have officially admitted to being in a relationship. How long will they keep putting the public off the scent? Only time will tell.On a bumpy roadJustin Timberlake 32 & Jessica Biel, 31, USThey say: “There are no shortcuts to any place worth going.” For the pop singer and the Total Recall actress, their road to marriage has certainly seen no shortcuts - it’s been quite a bumpy one.Timberlake and Biel started dating in January 2007. After four years of being together, the couple announced their split in March 2011. By fall 2011, however, the couple had reunited, and they got married the next October. In his new album The 20/20 Experience, Timberlake openly dedicates the song Mirrors to Biel, “the most significant person in his life”.Keeping a low profileGwyneth Paltrow, 41, US & Chris Martin, 36, UKSince the Oscar-winning actress and the Coldplay frontman started dating in 2002 and got married the year after, they’ve been famously private as a couple. They always keep a low profile, so low, in fact, that they’re rarely seen together at red carpet events. But that doesn’t mean they don’t love each other.When quizzed in the August issue of Good Housekeeping magazine on her “best decision” in life to date, Paltrow replied: “To marry my husband”. Back in 2011, the quiet and shy Martin admitted to Rolling Stone magazine that marrying Paltrow was like “winning the lottery”.Going their separate waysKaty Perry, 29, US & Russell Brand, 38, UKThe case of Perry and Brand has proved that the “singer-and-actor” formula can go wrong, and turn ugly.After a year’s dating, the pop star and comedian got married in October 2010. Their marriage lasted 14 months.Recently, Perry revealed to Vogue magazine that Brand sent her a text message on New Year’s Eve asking for a divorce and the two have never spoken to each other again since.Maybe it was the imbalance- Perry’s worldwide fame compared with Brand’s tepid career - that caused the couple to go their separate ways. Or perhaps, as rumor has it, Brand didn’t like the idea of Perry “being in control” of things. Either way, it was a notorious breakup.
