Marvel paves way for heroines
Captain America: The Winter Soldier has taken China by storm. On its opening weekend earlier last month, the action movie grossed $39.2 million (243.82 million yuan) at the national box office, drawing an estimated crowd of 5.6 million, according to The Hollywood Reporter. That’s more than Thor, which was released in November, but not enough to beat Iron Man 3’s record-breaking performance a year ago.Apart from their commercial success, what do Captain America, Thor and Iron Man have in common? They’re all superheroes who we’ve admired since our childhood. They’re also the products of Marvel, the US publisher of comic books.But there’s something else, too: they’re all white men.Yes, Scarlett Johansson makes an appearance starring as Black Widow alongside Chris Evans in The Winter Soldier, but it’s just that — an appearance. Her role doesn’t bring any real substance to the plot and the focus is *predominantly on Captain America.“There’s a glass ceiling cinematically,” Joss Whedon, director of The Avengers, told Wired magazine. “There is not a major studio out there that is trying to make a movie about a female superhero. They’ll say, ‘This is guy stuff.’”On those rare occasions when women do make it into action movies, it seems they are either stripped of their *femininity or are merely set *props, as James Cameron, director of Avatar, told The Guardian. “I do think Hollywood movies get it wrong when they show women in action roles — they basically make them men. Or else they make them into superheroes in shiny black suits, which is just not as interesting.”Marvel, however, is trying to put an end to this stereotypical treatment of women in heroic roles. In November, it announced that a new character would be taking over the long-standing comic series Ms. Marvel.Instead of the usual sexy white American blonde, the new heroine is Kamala Khan, a Muslim-American teenager learning to deal with the struggles of growing up as the young daughter of Pakistani immigrants living in Jersey City.Kamala has already become a powerful figure in a *nascent but growing movement to make superhero comics more diverse and widely appealing.“Kamala is not unlike Peter Parker [Spider-Man],” Axel Alonso, editor-in-chief of Marvel, told AP. “She’s a 16-year-old girl from the *suburbs who is trying to figure out who she is and trying to *forge an identity when she suddenly *bestows great power and learns the great responsibility that comes with it.”Alonso believes that alternative role models like Kamala can help bring new readers to comics: “When you see [a hero who] looks like you, you are more inspired to pick up that book.”Speaking to Reuters, Sana Amanat, co-creator of Kamala and editor of the series, added: “We are always trying to *upend expectations to an extent, but our point is to always reflect the world outside our window, and we are looking through a lot more windows right now.”
