Long journey to victory
Last year’s The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey — the prequel to the trilogy The Lord of the Rings — was quite a success at the box office (it reached about $1 billion, or 6.09 billion yuan, worldwide). But honestly, it was a little boring and, at 169 minutes, very long.The second part of the trilogy The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is a little less long and a little less boring. That’s because after almost three hours of setup in the last installment, we finally get some action. It’s time for the group of Bilbo Baggins (Martin Freeman) and the 13 dwarfs, led by Thorin Oakenshield (Richard Armitage) and the wizard Gandalf (Ian McKellen), to win back the Dwarf Kingdom of Erebor.Director Peter Jackson throws us right into the action, with the group fighting giant spiders, orcs, and the biggest villain, Smaug, the dragon.The battles are visceral, physical and sometimes also funny. They demonstrate the best of the film’s technical excellence: Imaginary creatures come to life, fantastic worlds are realized, and breathtaking sequences prove what an accomplished action director Jackson has become.Smaug looks incredible and Benedict Cumberbatch’s voice adds to the creepiness and horror. Of course, Smaug’s monologue with Baggins is a highlight, although the film spends nearly a half hour with monotonous would-be action of little consequence before coming to a hasty end.For fans of special effects and quality action sequences in a fantasy setting, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is a perfect choice. But compared with any chapter of The Lord of the Rings trilogy, it feels a little empty.The Lord of the Rings trilogy was about more than just action and incident. It talked about friendship and courage, and the characters often captured our hearts. The Hobbit falls short on character work and story development, without offering a real reason for us to care if Baggins and the dwarfs succeed in their journey.That said, The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is already better than The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey. Hopefully the final chapter next year can pull out something truly spectacular, otherwise The Hobbit trilogy will likely be remembered only as a footnote to one of the greatest cinematic accomplishments of our time.
