Mischief maker
Few could have foreseen the huge commercial success of the movie Deadpool. It defies every convention of the comic book genre. Its hero, the “Merc with a Mouth”, is talkative, mean and horribly disfigured. And yet, somehow, Deadpool has won audiences’ hearts.This latest release from 20th Century Fox tells the story of yet another Marvel comics character, and like its superhero predecessors, it too was an instant moneymaker. Deadpool topped the worldwide box office for two weeks, raking in $492 million (3.2 billion yuan). That’s pretty impressive, considering its relatively meager budget of $58 million.The “Merc with a Mouth” goes by the alias Deadpool, and he might be the most unheroic protagonist from the Marvel canon. Prior to his superhero transformation, he was once Wade Wilson, a hardened mercenary with a relentless wit.A fellow superhero, the X-man Domino, said that Wilson’s most lethal weapon is his mouth: “He’ll talk nonsense until you surrender or commit suicide.” When Wilson takes a cab or does his laundry, he just keeps chattering non-stop. Even when his enemy, the sadistic scientist Ajax, ties him up on the operating table, Wilson still can’t stop muttering.Wilson’s behavior is just as eccentric as his dialogue. To propose on Christmas Eve may sound romantic. But, well, Wilson pops the question pant-less and with a candy ring.Film critic Daniel Krupa wrote in a review for IGN, “At times it feels more like a surreal sitcom than a big action-comedy”. That’s not a bad thing actually, since Deadpool’s bizarre digressions are exactly what makes the film appealing.Just like the undervalued costumed hero he plays, lead actor Ryan Reynolds was seen as box office poison. Reynolds has had chronically bad luck with superhero films. The two movies he starred in, Blade: Trinity (2004) and X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009), were considered to be among the worst of their franchises.But in Deadpool, Reynolds completely rocked the title role. His toned physique fits the character, and most importantly, he shares Wilson’s sense of humor in his real life. In the comics, the mouthy “merc” calls himself “a cross between Ryan Reynolds and a Shar-Pei”.The success of Deadpool marks a shift in the direction of superhero movies. Flawless heroes are gradually losing their luster, as evidenced by the abysmal earnings of Superman Returns in 2006. The sequel to that straitlaced hero film was canceled. In its wake, a whole new brand of superhero movie has emerged, fronted by back-talking, morally ambiguous characters like Iron Man.Deadpool is the latest film to smash the former superhero mold. “This funny, bloody comedy is the Marvel Universe’s biggest breath of fresh air since Guardians of the Galaxy,” according to a review from The Wrap.
