Lady Gaga stars in new film
She is always linked to strange clothing and heavy makeup. In fact, Lady Gaga is so indispensable of exaggeration and strangeness that in China, the phrase “Oh my Lady Gaga” has replaced “Oh my God” as a cute way to express shock or stress a point.However, in the movie A Star is Born, which came out in the US earlier this month, people finally get to see a more down-to-earth version of Lady Gaga.“You can see her skin, the flutter in her veins, which brings you close to her, and can make both the actress and her character feel touchingly vulnerable,” The New York Times noted.In the film, Lady Gaga plays the role of Ally Campana, a young woman whose rise to fame is much like Lady Gaga’s. Campana goes from being a waitress to a superstar with the help of musician Jackson Maine.Rising to fame isn’t easy for anyone. This is also the case for Campana. In addition to performing, she has to learn to cater to certain audiences and markets. For example, she has to follow her agent’s advice on becoming a commercial star, even though she wants to stay “real”.But that was never a problem for Lady Gaga. “If they wanted me to look sexy, I wanted to look weird,” she told Variety. “I always wanted to define what it meant to be me and I always had something to say and I always made sure that no one stood in my way when I wanted to say it.”Lady Gaga’s determination to be her true self can also be seen in her devotion to the film’s music.Music is definitely an important part of the film, as it shows how the lead characters’ feelings change over time. In most other musical films, the actors and actresses will use songs recorded by others. But as a musician herself, Lady Gaga chose to sing all 18 of the original songs by herself in the film. This makes the film flow smoothly and naturally.It was “just like walking into another Oscar award-winning 2016 film La La Land, traveling through intoxicating songs and moving emotions,” according to Rotten Tomatoes, a US film review website.Lady Gaga’s contributions to the film led its director to praise her as a “beautiful human being”. Film editor Ella Kemp told USA Today, “I’d like to formally apologize for ever doubting that Lady Gaga is absolutely out of this world. A Star is Born celebrates the woman, as it should – along with every noble ambition of love and music and patience and loyalty, bursting with pain and wonder.”
