“Hunger Games” gets fiery sequel
There are two inconvenient truths in the film industry: sequels can hardly surpass the original, and movie adaptations are never better than the book. But for The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, which will be released on Nov 21, both rules don’t seem to hold.The sequel to last year’s The Hunger Games, adapted from US writer Suzanne Collins’ novel, is “bigger, crisper, more thought-out, and more polished”, according to a review in The Daily Beast. “Its visuals [are] striking, its close-in filming style parallels the intimacy of the first-person book,” The Seattle Times added.In Catching Fire, Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence) and co-winner Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson) are about to go on a nationwide tour celebrating their victory in the 74th annual Hunger Games. However, the country’s corrupt figurehead, President Snow, doesn’t take kindly to being outwitted, and his latest scheme is to pit the survivors of previous Hunger Games against one another.Structurally, Catching Fire has three distinct acts. There’s the tour, the preparation and the games. One would assume that the games are the highlight since they were the focus in the original movie. But this time, the other two acts are more engaging. “Director Francis Lawrence expands the world from the first film and builds the themes that’ll play out over the course of the series,” Germain Lussier wrote in a review for Slashfilm.com.Jennifer Lawrence, who won the Oscars’ Best Actress Award in February for her performance in Silver Linings Playbook, certainly steals the show. “Lawrence does a wonderful job throughout, balancing Katniss’ signature restraint with a rising rage as things bubble up around her,” Lussier said.The film’s main problem, according to Anthony Scott from The New York Times, is that things get repetitive. “We’ve already seen the training, we’ve already seen the parties, and while there are new wrinkles to each of these, they don’t do wonders for the film’s pacing,” Scott wrote in his review.However, with all the fun and spectacular visual effects, Catching Fire is still more than most adaptations manage to deliver. “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire serves up food for thought and jolts of adrenaline in equal doses,” The Wrap’s review said. “Dismiss it as a popcorn movie if you must, but at least they’ve bothered to serve it with real butter and truffle salt.”
