Scream for ice cream
On what was probably a blazing hot summer day during the Tang Dynasty, the emperor got a taste of what historians say was first form of ice cream.The dessert was made by putting a yogurt-like dairy product into containers cooled with a mixture of ice, salt and water. Legend has it the emperor was so pleased with the cold confection he commanded 94 men to continue producing it so he could indulge whenever he wanted.In the time since its creation, ice cream has journeyed around the world, taking on new smile-inducing flavors and toppings at each stop. And with Western ice cream parlors popping up all over China, many of those international flavors are just waiting to melt on your tongue. Some are fruity, some mix things up with unexpected combinations, and others are just downright weird.If your sweet tooth favors more natural flavors, you’re in luck. Fruity ice cream is all the rage right now. International ice cream brand Diary Queen has brought dragon fruit and litchi together to create a new fruity ice cream available this summer.Fruit flavors are a pretty safe bet, but what if you want something that can hit your taste buds with multiple flavors? Try a mixed delight. Chocolate and peppermint might not seem like they were meant to go together, but ice cream brand Baskin-Robbins has made it work this summer. The thick flavor of chocolate plus the fresh taste of peppermint creates a special treat.McDonalds is also mixing things up, offering a dessert made of red bean ice cream swirled in a green bean cone.If you’re really looking to push the flavor envelope, ice cream shops are also producing treats meant to make your taste buds pop.Mustard ice cream and durian ice cream are available at chain restaurant Just Like It in Shanghai. Some brave eaters are flocking there to have a taste. And Baskin-Robbins is serving up ice cream with a marshmallow flavor.“People are open to new and less conventional ice cream flavors more than ever these days,” Sam Kopicko, a co-owner of Sweet Action Ice Cream, a Denver-based ice cream shop in the US, told CNN.With so many new flavors, no one can keep calm.
