Campus comedy gets laughs
Wearing shirts and suits, Li Qiang and Sun Dunyu look nothing like cross talk performers. But the audiences often have a good laugh over the jokes they tell.During the cross talk convention at Nanjing Normal University on April 25, they and other student comedians put on unique performances. They believe their adaptation of traditional cross talk not only makes it relevant to student audiences, but also injects new vitality into the art form.Student humourLi, 23, is the organizer of the cross talk convention. Coming from north China, the business management major has a big interest in cross talk, yet he found that students from the south seem indifferent to the art form.“They prefer the talk show of Zhou Libo to the cross talk of Guo Degang,” Li says. Therefore, he set up a cross talk club in his university, trying to perform cross talk that students can enjoy.“Our performances are different to the cross talk performed in theatres,” Li says. “Not only do we base our jokes on campus life, but also the buzzwords students like to use.” By adding elements that students relate to, he believes that student audiences can better appreciate their cross talk.Satirical wordsLi’s strategy works. Several hundred students came to watch his cross talk club and clubs from other universities perform at the convention. The medium-sized hall was so crowded that some students had to stand all the time.“I’m a hardcore fan of Li Qiang. He always makes me laugh when he mercilessly makes fun of those who talk big but act small,” says Cheng Nan, a sophomore student of English at Nanjing University.According to Sun Hao, a recent graduate of Southeast University who is also the former president of his university’s cross talk club, sarcasm is a common theme in cross talk for students. “We satirize those who always give empty talk,” he says.Eye for detailAccording to Sun Dunyu, a law major at Nanjing Normal University who is also Li’s cross talk partner, another type of humor students enjoy is based on common but often ignored scenes in student life.“We find that students tend to overlook their own routines. For example, when they’re in a relationship, they make romantic phone calls every day. When we joke that some people spend hundreds on such phone calls every day, it makes students laugh because it sounds absurd. But it really happens sometimes,” the 23-year-old says.Though Li was confident their performance would be a success, he didn’t expect it would be so welcomed by students. “It’s a good sign,” he says. “It shows we’re on the right track to popularizing this art form. With more students joining in, performing and enjoying cross talk, the ancient art will rejuvenate on campus.”
