Winter television warms up
Where Are We Going, Dad? season 2 finished two weeks ago, and The Voice of China had its finale last week. As much as you may miss these shows, there’s no need to be worried about having nothing to watch in the coming months. With the much-anticipated Chinese version of well-known South Korean reality show Running Man hitting Zhejiang TV on Oct 10, a winter season full of entertaining and unique reality shows awaits. Let’s check out some shows that are worth watching.Running ManChannel: Zhejiang TVTime: 9 pm, every Friday starting from Oct 10Total episode: 15Cast: Deng Chao, Wang Baoqiang, Chen He and AngelababyHosted by South Korea’s popular emcee Yoo Jae-suk, the South Korean version of Running Man is a flagship show on Seoul Broadcasting System (SBS). The program has gained a huge fanbase in China since it first aired in 2010. And the Chinese version is a joint production of Zhejing TV and SBS to maintain the program’s essence while adding a Chinese flavor to it.Seven Chinese celebrities joined the show, competing against each other in various tasks. Deng Chao, The Breakup Guru director and actor, acts as host in the program.Two Days One NightChannel: Dragon TVTime: 9:15 pm, every Saturday starting from Nov 1Total episode: 13Cast: Zhang Fengyi, Julian Cheung and Deric WenThis program is also an adaptation of South Korean reality show 2 Days & 1 Night, in which six celebrities are gathered to travel on a budget. What makes this Chinese version so exciting is that apart from the fixed cast, the show will invite one big name in show business to participate in each week’s travels. The show includes Han Geng, Lu Han and William Chan.The Amazing Race in ChinaChannel: Shenzhen TVTime: 9 pm, every Friday starting from Oct 17Total episode: 10Cast: Wallace Chung, Ekin Cheng and Li XiaopengAn adaptation of long-running US reality show The Amazing Race, this new program on Shenzhen TV invites eight celebrities, each of whom selects their own teammate, to race around the world in competition with other teams. During the show, contestants are put into a series of mental and physical challenges. They must fight hard to avoid losing and being eliminated.She’s My FamilyChannel: Jiangsu TVTime: 10 pm, every Friday starting from Oct 10Total episode: 12Cast: Cecilia Cheung, Huang Shengyi, Choo Ja-hyun and Li JinmingUnlike the other three shows, which focus on outdoors, travel and competition, She’s My Family deals with family life. Four actresses are sent to ordinary households in Yunnan where they live as the family’s daughter-in-law. The highlight of the show is how these celebrities complete house and farm work, and how they manage to get along with their new families.
