Summer’s hot TV acts
Another semester is coming to a close, and you might be looking for a few ways to kill some free time. Luckily, summer has a slate of new shows queued up and ready to keep you occupied, entertained and coming back for more.  Check out what TV series the warm winds are blowing in this time.AquariusPremiere: May 28Genre: DramaWatch if you like: Dexter (2006), Hannibal (2013), True Detective (2014)One of the most storied violent crime sprees in US history was carried out in the 1960s by a man named Charles Manson, who led a group of misfits in the dusty California desert. When the daughter of a friend finds her way into the cult, cop Sam Hodiak (David Duchovny) agrees to retrieve her. The mission presents its challenges, however, so Hodiak enlists the help of a young and eccentric rookie to infiltrate the growing group of drifters. But the more the two cops discover, the more they realize they’re dealing with a problem that’s bigger than they ever imagined. Set in a period of American history ripe for further exploration, Aquarius promises to soak viewers in feelings of nostalgia. Even better, the show pulls music directly from this creatively rich decade and uses it in the show. If you like period dramas and crime stories, keep an eye on Aquarius.Wayward PinesPremiered: May 14Genre: ThrillerWatch if you like: True Detective (2014), Lost (2004), Fringe (2008)US Secret Service investigator Ethan Burke (Matt Dillon) lands in Wayward Pines, an eerie part of the American northwest tasked with finding out the truth behind the disappearance of two fellow agents. The town, of course, isn’t exactly what it seems. Citizens are distant and seem engaged in an act to appear normal, as if some unfriendly onlooker is quietly judging them. Burke quickly senses something is off, and he’s not willing to play the game. After a prolonged string of cinematic flops, director M. Night Shyamalan’s name might not inspire much confidence, and his steep fall from grace is a running joke among many critics. But with a new format to work with, he’s hoping he can create something that will put him back in everyone’s good graces. Featuring thematic nods to David Lynch’s skin-crawling mystery “Twin Peaks” and controversial sci-fi series “Lost”, you can at least be sure Wayward Pines will keep your mind racing.Orange Is the New Black (Season 3)Premiere: June 12Genre: Comedy/DramaWatch if you like: Weeds (2005), Prison Break (2005), The Mindy Project (2012)Since being released in 2013, this Netflix hit has repurposed the gritty prison drama into an insightful and lighthearted meditation on diversity and prison culture. The story follows Piper Chapman, an upper middle class suburbanite who, 10 years after smuggling drugs across international borders, is sentenced to 15 months in a US federal prison. Season three picks up after the suspense-filled revelations that had critics and audiences raving last year. Showrunner Jenji Kohan won’t speak in detail about what’s coming next, but she mentioned at a panel the new season is “lighter than season two, it’s a season of faith, it’s a season of motherhood, it’s a progression of everyone’s stories.” New characters are also set to step behind bars, injecting new personalities and storylines into the series. If you’re already a fan, get ready to binge on 14 new episodes of one of the most “progressive” shows around.The Astronaut Wives ClubPremiere: June 18Genre: DramaWatch if you like: Mad Men (2007), Outlander (2014), Desperate Housewives (2004)Behind every great man stands a great woman. In this case, there were dozens of women.Based on journalist Lily Koppel’s acclaimed book, this upcoming drama reveals the lives of the wives of the finest US astronauts during space’s golden age. At the time, space exploration represented the realization of one of mankind’s oldest aspirations: to touch the moon and float among the stars.In the US, astronauts were cast as heroes in the public eye. But while the heroes were away, it was their wives who had to keep that myth of heroism sturdy under the gaze of the media, and it wasn’t easy.The show’s premiere is a few weeks away, but if reviews of the book are any indication, this will be one to watch. Several reviewers called the book a fun summer read, and hopefully it’ll prove to be a stellar summer watch.
