‘Elysium’ adds brain to sci-fi action genre
This year we’ve seen a veritable feast of Hollywood sci-fi movies: another sequel in the classic series Star Trek Into Darkness; the ambitious and risk-taking Cloud Atlas; Oblivion, which features all kinds of imaginative high-tech gadgets; and the expensive visual stunt Pacific Rim.When we watch these kinds of movies, we pay much attention to the visual effects and are often wowed by the filmmakers’ wild imaginations. But with Elysium, we get a little more than that.Set in 2154, the planet has been ravaged by disease, pollution and overpopulation. The wealthiest now live on a space station called Elysium, which can be seen from Earth and is home to a medical device that can cure any condition.The movie focuses on the unfortunate blue-collar worker Max Da Costa (Matt Damon) after he becomes exposed to lethal amounts of radiation. With just five days left to live, he attempts to make his way to the elusive Elysium in order to survive — little does Da Costa know that worse problems are on their way.It might not sound like anything special so far, but bear with me.Elysium is the sophomore project by writer-director Neil Blomkamp after District 9. The 2009 low-budget, sci-fi thriller achieved critical acclaim for not only its technical brilliance, but also its social commentary on immigration.Although Blomkamp previously made clear that Elysium is not a movie with a message, still, it’s full of obvious touches on timely political issues, such as the US’ healthcare crisis and the growing income gap.While you could say that the hidden message makes the movie profound, Elysium overdoes it by worrying too much that the audience won’t get the metaphor. For example, Defense Secretary Jessica Delacourt (Jodie Foster) is warned that she’s supposed to “deal with illegals quietly”. Ships that forcefully attempt to land on Elysium are labeled “undocumented shuttles” and their passengers whisked off to “deportation”. OK, it’s about immigration. We get it already.Besides labeling all of its parable components using today’s political terminology, the movie is, however, a first-rate action movie, as well as a richly imagined and visually inventive sci-fi movie. And the acting of a strong cast led by Damon and Foster is flawless.Maybe Blomkamp made a mistake by underestimating the audiences’ ability of understanding. But, yet again, he tried to put a little brain into the usual no-brainer kind of movie. And that deserves some credit.
