Man of many talents
He is full-of-life and boisterous in his latest film The Breakup Guru (《分手大师》). Meanwhile, he’s the sincere and persistent fellow in Ten Years of Love (《相爱十年》), the new series on Hunan TV. In real life, Deng Chao also seems to be able to embrace several roles simultaneously: He’s a husband, a father and an actor who always seeks the next breakthrough.From his recent exposure on TV and the big screen, you may have already figured out how hardworking Deng is. The 35-year-old actor has a successful career; a talented wife, Sun Li, who is also currently at the peak of her career; and two children. What more could he possibly want?“I have a restless soul,” Deng said in an interview with Harper’s Bazaar magazine in June.And the latest evidence is his first directorial attempt in The Breakup Guru, a film adaptation of a stage play by the same title, which Deng was the producer of about four years ago.Becoming a producer or director seems to be an inevitable path for many actors nowadays, and the process can be as short as only a few years. But for Deng, it took 12 years.Since Deng first gained popularity as a TV actor in 2002’s historic drama Son of Heaven (《少年天子》), he has continued to impress audiences in several hit TV series, such as Happiness as Flowers(《幸福像花儿一样》) and The Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber (《倚天屠龙记》).In 2006, Deng starred in Feng Xiaogang’s Assembly (《集结号》), making himself a movie star. His performances on the big screen were soon acknowledged with important film awards, including Hundred Flowers Awards and Hong Kong Film Awards.“Today’s young celebrities are often pushed to try a lot of different things,” Deng told Men’s Uno magazine in April. “But I prefer to take my time, step by step, doing things when I’m fully prepared.”Now, Deng is confident enough to present himself as a new director, although he admitted that it’s not an easy transformation.“You can be a perfectionist as an actor, because you’re only responsible for one character,” Deng said at The Breakup Guru’s premiere in Shanghai on June 17. “But being a director requires the art of balancing. Often times, you need to let go of things.”No matter what response his directorial debut will receive, Deng has certainly surprised fans, and himself, too. “You never know how much potential you’ve got,” Deng said. “That’s why 15 years later, my job still excites me.”
