Saviors of rock music
Rock ‘n’ roll is a music genre many people thought was dying. But four young rockers from Las Vegas, US — better known as Imagine Dragons — are changing the landscape of rock music with a breath of fresh air.Since exploding onto the music scene with their debut album Night Visions in September 2012, Imagine Dragons have quickly become one of the biggest breakout bands of 2013. Their impact on the music industry has been radioactive, just as the title of their hit song suggests.And they’re still going strong. After taking over music charts, holding sold-out concerts and performing at important award shows, Imagine Dragons just won five major prizes at this year’s Billboard Music Awards on May 18, including Top Rock Artist and Top Rock Album.Four years ago, Imagine Dragons were just an indie band playing at Las Vegas casinos to pay the rent for their shared apartment. Sometimes they even had to pay to play because they couldn’t sell enough tickets.“Bands have asked me, ‘What do you attribute your success to?’ The two things I always say are, one, we never said ‘no’ to anything,” frontman Dan Reynolds told Billboard magazine in its cover story in July. “We’d play birthday parties, weddings, casinos. We wanted to perform and create as much as possible.”The other thing, according to Reynolds, is luck. After independently releasing three EPs, Imagine Dragons were signed by Interscope Records, one of the major labels in the US that has many popular artists including Lady Gaga and Eminem.However, you will understand that the band’s success isn’t all thanks to sheer luck when you hear their music. Besides typical elements of rock music, such as the heavy sound of guitar and drums and self-empowering lyrics, Imagine Dragons have successfully incorporated their folk influences from their indie music roots into their mainstream songs.Described by Rolling Stone magazine as “a mixture of Mumford & Sons and Coldplay”, the usage of instruments in their songs is strongly influenced by folk music, and the themes they explore range from anxiety and depression to love, survival and philosophy.If you aren’t familiar with Imagine Dragons’ music, you had better get on it fast, because Reynolds has promised a follow-up album for some time later this year. And then, the world of music will very likely be shaken once again by their rocking spirit.
