Sequels still impressing
Summer is coming, but that doesn’t simply mean hot temperatures. At that time of year, the latest installments from popular movie franchises arrive in cinemas.Following the Fast and the Furious, this summer, we have Transformers, Spiderman and Pirates of the Caribbean movies coming our way. These franchises have been so popular for so long that viewing and enjoying them has become part of popular culture all over the world.But despite their popularity, critics tend to turn their noses up at these profitable  blockbusters. “Hollywood has relied on expanding its proven commodities, rather than offering us new ideas,” commented The Huffington Post. Others agree with this, arguing that franchise movies are simply made to pick the pockets of easily deceived film fans.However, whatever critics say, it isn’t unusual to see people lining up for tickets for these blockbuster sequels. Why is that? Besides the obvious – people continue to enjoy them – what is the appeal of going to see a film that in many respects will be very similar to one you saw two years before?Stephen Snart, writing in The Guardian, has an interesting theory: People like franchises because they sense the effects of the passage of time on the heroes of the movies. Take Jason Bourne for example. At the start of the franchise 13 years ago, Matt Damon – who plays Bourne in four of the movies – was a fresh-faced young man, with little sense of what life had in store for him.But over the course of the years – and five films – he changes in both body and mind. He pays a price for all that frantic running and fighting. As Snart pointed out, you can see this just by looking at the movie posters for the franchise. In The Bourne Identity (2002) Damon was all “youthful oblivion.” In Jason Bourne (2016) the actor appeared old and tired. Of course, this is the actor himself aging, but in our imagination, it’s the story of Bourne himself.The Roman poet Virgil (70BC-19BC) wrote, “Time flies never to be recalled” – an observation that will always be true. It’s also a little sad.The upside (好处) is that looking back can be fun. We watch a new installment of a franchise and think back to what we were doing when the previous movie came out. Bourne, Captain Jack and Bridget Jones all grow old, and so do we.
