DJ duo dominate
For the last 11 weeks, the Chainsmokers, an American DJ duo consisting of 26-year-old Andrew Taggart and 31-year-old Alex Pall, have controlled the Billboard Hot 100 with Closer, rewriting the mark for the longest domination of a song in 2016.But that isn’t enough to describe the DJ duo’s wild *ascent this year–Closer is their third top 10 single of the year and they headlined major festivals, including Southern California’s Coachella and EDC in Las Vegas.The way they got there says a lot about what young fans want right now, and how the boundaries between the roles of producer and pop star are more flexible.They first drew attention by posting online remixes of indie rock songs, before scoring a viral hit in 2013 with the single #Selfie. To call that track a “novelty hit”–its *sarcastic lyrics mock women in nightclubs taking self-portraits–would be among the kinder things said about the song, but it did earn them a huge audience, even if few expected them to keep it.Over the last year, the pair broadened their electronic dance music *palette to include softer, more *melancholy styles, even trying out more meaningful material. And crucially, it was a flexible enough genre to allow for a big range of collaborations, often with then-unknown top-line vocalists like the young singers Daya and Rozes.Therapy sessionsTheir new strategy peaked in 2016, when a string of singles, including Don’t Let Me Down and Roses, went Top 10 and multi-platinum. Suddenly, that eye-rolling DJ duo from a few years ago became one of the most influential acts in pop.Only Justin Bieber and Drake have had more Top-10 singles this year.“It definitely surprised us, because you never know the outcome,” Pall said. “You can’t write songs like ‘Is this going to be a hit?’ But people were looking for something more substantial, and our own songwriting tastes were always more in that *vein anyway. Our writing sessions became more like therapy.”They also helped set a new pattern for pop-crossover electronica, one similar to that of Bieber, Skrillex and Diplo’s hit Where Are U Now? That format prizes flexibility and moving on quickly to new styles and collaborations.And now, producers like the Chainsmokers are just as often the “face” of the song, as the lead vocalist would have been just a few years ago.“There’s a cluster of artists right now like Chainsmokers, Calvin Harris, Zedd and Diplo that have figured this out,” said John Ivey, senior vice president of programming at iHeartMedia and program director for KIIS-FM in Los Angeles. “What are they? They’re singers, they’re producers, they’re mixers – they do everything. They have the flexibility to *crank stuff out and not be so protective of each song.”
