Pop’s new poets
US singer Charlie Puth, 23, skyrocketed to stardom for his vocals on chart-topping single “See You Again”. But he knew his name alone couldn’t sell the “Furious 7” song. Puth told Entertainment Weekly his team asked well-known American rapper Wiz Khalifa, 27, to lend his voice to the track to beef up its appeal, and Khalifa agreed. Three months after its release, the song is still sitting pretty at the top of the Billboard charts.More than ever, when the biggest hits on US airwaves aren’t rap through and through, they feature a rapper as a guest artist or boast hip-hop influences. While promoting “Yeezus” (2013), his most recent album, cultural firebrand Kanye West, 38, declared rap the “new rock and roll”. It was a provocative statement, but one of its underlying messages is indisputable: hip-hop has become a pillar of American music and culture.What’s the difference between rap and hip-hop? Definitions vary depending on whom you ask. US documentarian Peter Gerard insists a New York DJ was the first to describe rap as a broader part of a hip-hop culture, a myth that’s become widely accepted as fact. However, in common usage, the words rap and hip-hop are used interchangeably when describing the music.That music began taking shape in New York City’s black neighborhoods in the late 1960s, and about a decade later it emerged as a fully-fledged genre. Since then, the music has gone through waves of reinvention prompted by changing social dynamics and music industry influence. Throughout the 1980s and 90s it was a raw and unflinching expression of the joys, sorrows and aspirations of the US’ black underclass. In today’s Internet age, it’s become a platform anyone can use for creative expression.Rap’s broadening appeal has allowed it to latch onto other facets of global music and spin off in unexpected directions. Everyone from your favorite K-pop boy band to pop queen Taylor Swift, 25, is hopping on the hip-hop train. These new influences are forever changing the face of the music just as the music itself is changing the face of American culture.
