Halsey on the rise
For any musician, topping the Billboard Hot 100 for the 11th week running is a notable life achievement. But for 22-year-old US pop singer Ashley Nicolette Frangipane, better known as Halsey, she’s accomplished this task when her career is still in its infancy.On Oct 26, the singer was named as this year’s Billboard Women in Music’s Rising Star for recognition of her chart dominance and musical talent. Before *ascending to celebrity status, high-profile US singers such as Ariana Grande, Lady Gaga and Nicki Minaj also received this distinction.“Halsey is the voice of a generation, someone who is an impassioned political advocate and personal artist,” US entertainment writer Janice Min told Billboard. “Her *credibility and talent make her a must-have collaborator.”Halsey’s stardom is by no means an overnight *sensation – it’s been a nearly decade-long process for the young artist to build up her profile.At the age of 14, she started uploading videos of herself performing covers with her guitar to YouTube. By 18, the singer had amassed tens of thousands of followers.It wasn’t until late last summer that Halsey released her first album, Badlands, which not only went to No 1 on the Alternative Albums chart and No 2 on the Billboard 200, but also proved her ability to make alternative pop sounds to rival well-established singers like Katy Perry, Lorde and Lana Del Rey. Meanwhile, her breakout single New Americana (2015) was even *dubbed as a “generational anthem” by the media.Despite her newcomer status, she’s in high demand among more established artists, including Canadian singer Justin Bieber. Her latest *collaboration Closer, which sees Halsey share the track with US band the Chainsmokers’Drew Taggart, brings the song to a whole new level.“You can probably find a ton of interviews where she was the number one artist we wanted to work with,”  the Chainsmokers’ Alex Pall told the Teen Vogue. “She brings a level of depth to the song that doesn’t exist if Drew had just sung it.” As a result, Closer has been atop the Billboard’s Hot 100 for its 11th week.Unlike most stars who hide behind their social media accounts, Halsey chooses to engage with fans directly and frequently. “I come from a generation where these huge follower counts are normal,” she told The New York Times. “But my interaction levels are incredibly high.” On top of that, Halsey sets a very high standard for her art *endeavor.“She’s a true artist – you can tell the moment you meet her,” US singer Imagine Dragons’ Dan Reynolds told the Billboard. “And she’s *passionate about putting on a great show. There were nights when she would get offstage and be upset because she felt like she just didn’t give enough – and those were nights when the crowd loved her.”
