Edison Chen talks to CNN
RAO: Talk to me about what the experience has been like for you of coming back to Hong Kong.CHEN: I thought about coming back to Hong Kong for a long time. I’ve wanted to come back for quite a while now, so I’m actually quite happy.I’ve been away from home for too long, you know, I feel like a nomad. I’ve been living out of a suitcase for a year and a half it seems like. RAO: There was a point though where you seemed to suggest that you were going to stay out of the public eye indefinitely. Since then you’ve had your movie, The Sniper, out. Do you really think though that you can still resurrect your career?CHEN: It is good that you said this point because a lot of the media, especially the Chinese media, have said that Edison says he’s quitting the entertainment industry forever. I actually said indefinitely. Now maybe some people don’t understand what indefinitely means. It can mean 5 minutes, it can mean 2,000 years. I never said forever.RAO: Did you have any idea where the threats were coming from? For example, were you worried about organized crime?CHEN: Wow, you know, I wish I knew. I mean I would love to sit down with those people and really talk to them and really, in my terms, squash the beef, you know, like kind of level things out because I don’t really believe that it has to go to that extreme. RAO: Let’s talk now specifically about the scandal. Sounds like a simple question, but why did you take the photos in the first place?RAO: Did all of the women involved know that their photos were being taken?CHEN: Yes, definitely. Definitely. I have to say that, you know, everything was mutual. It was all consensual, all consensual. I don’t know exactly how they view what had happened or what they tell people, but I know the truth. I’m only here to say the truth because I believe that there’s too much lies going around and too much controversy and too much hearsay. And I’ll tell you right now that, you know, if I have a camera in front of your face and there’s a flash, do you know that I’m taking a photo of you? That’s as simple as it is.RAO: The public was furious at the time. Did you expect that sort of a backlash?CHEN: Uhh... No, No, because I believed I was a victim. I believed that I was hurt by this a lot. I believed that. I knew that I had nothing to do with the spreading of these photos.RAO: Well careers are in shreds and engagements been broken, some would say even lives have been ruined. If any of the women were to come to you and say, listen, I wanna talk about this, you know, I wanna just get this all straight. Would you be open to that?CHEN: Definitely. If we’re going to sit down as two adults and really suss it out, I’m open, I’m open to it, but judging from the way they’ve done their interviews I don’t think that, you know, they have every right to be angry. I don’t want this to come across as I’m saying something about them, but I don’t think that they’re, they can sit down and have a constructional conversation with me quite yet.
