Iron Man beyond his comfort zone
“Third time lucky,” they say, but a third installment in a movie franchise is usually synonymous with a reputation crisis.Iron Man 3 conquers the curse of the number three in a novel way: It pretty much takes Iron Man out of the equation. He’s in there, obviously, but the billionaire industrialist Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) doesn’t spend much time in his computerized suit.Another innovative move by director Shane Black―especially for Chinese audiences ― is the cameo appearances of local movie stars Fan Bingbing and Wang Xueqi. Since their characters are totally negligible, all I have to say about them is, well, they’re in the movie.The movie begins with a flashback, in which Stark tells his story, explaining how his bad behavior created the demons that would change his life. Back in the present, Stark still feels the psychological aftermath of traveling through a wormhole and nuking a bunch of aliens before falling back to Earth ― the final sequence in last year’s blockbuster The Avengers.Black’s excellent idea is to kick Stark out of his comfort zone. Like I mentioned, Stark is often seen fighting without his Iron Man suit. Instead, he wears a Google Glass-like remote control, giving orders to his Iron Man team.But, curiously, it’s the superhero part of this superhero movie that feels the weakest. The plot makes no sense, the villain’s motivations are far-fetched, his evil scheme unnecessary, and (spoiler alert), in the end Iron Man is saved by his girlfriend Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow).Luckily, however, the movie functions well as a comedy. In fact, I’d rather describe it as a comedy with a superhero plot. There are plenty of laughs to get from Stark’s knowing one-liners and the other supporting characters. Ben Kingsley’s performance as The Mandarin, the villain, is a particular highlight of the movie.Two sequels later, it’s true that the once simple and straightforward story of the first Iron Man has become so laden with baggage that it loses sight of itself. Then again, watching Iron Man is not about figuring out riddles like in Inception. All you need to do is put on your 3-D glasses, sit back and enjoy the action. That’s a good enough reason for the movie to have become a successful franchise.
