Snow business
Skiing only caught on for ordinary Chinese in the mid-1990s in the country’s north and northeast, but has since blossomed into a pastime that can be practised nationwide. Here are five resorts worthy of consideration.1. Yabuli Ski ResortThe ski resort, built on Yabuli Sun Mountain, part of the Changbai Mountain Range, is located in China’s northernmost province, Heilongjiang. It is the best in terms of snow quality, skiing trails and spectacular views. Wild animals are frequently spotted on the site.The resort serves as the primary training venue for China’s national teams. It also has a trail vertical drop from 200 meters to 1,200 meters with an average drop of 700 meters.What’s cool: The largest ski resort in China.2. Alshan Ski ResortStretching over 10 km of pristine land, this place is one of China’s best ski resorts. It is in North China’s Inner Mongolia autonomous region and near the mountainous border with Mongolia. It also serves as one of the training bases for China’s national skiing team.The resort has a yearly snow fall period of 180 days between November and April. It has two main sections: one area for experienced skiers, and another Alpine section for amateurs. In addition to skiing, travelers can also explore other fun activities with authentic Mongolian flavor on the vast grasslands, such as watching horse racing, wrestling, archery and hunting.What’s cool: This resort is a place surrounded by evergreen virgin forests and has plenty of Alpine and cross-country trails.3. Beijing Huaibei International Ski ResortThis is a great destination for snowboarders and skiers to escape the hustle and bustle of city life and is a large recreational spot that boasts excellent ski slopes, world-class facilities, picturesque natural scenery, as well as convenient accommodation and dining services.Travelers are also able to take a bird’s eye view of the Great Wall by catching a cable car along 1,200 meters.What’s cool: Close to the Great Wall and Beijing’s largest ski resort.4. Shennongjia Ski ResortOpened in 2004, the ski resort is located in the hinterland of Shennongjia. It covers an area of 100,000 square meters and is only 0.5 km from the Shennongjia National Nature Reserve.There are ski tracks for primary and intermediate skiers and more than 20 coaches for tourists. While experiencing the excitement of skiing, people can also admire Shennongjia’s distinctive scenery of countless different odd mountain valleys, unknown beautiful flowers and plants.What’s cool: Largest winter sports complex for skiers from South and Central China.5. Changbai Mountain Ski ResortThe ski resort is an ideal place for skiing and ice-skating because of its well-constructed ski tracks, comprehensive winter sports training facilities and breathtaking environment.Enthusiasts can also choose other activities including motor skiing, sleigh skiing, shooting and hunting.The area’s natural hot springs are another attraction of the resort.What’s cool: The resort is located in the heart of Changbai Mountain Nature Reserve’s dense forest and has natural hot springs.
