Sweet dreams are made of this
The Got Talent show is where dreams take center stage.Two years ago, the world saw Susan Boyle’s dream of becoming a professional singer come true on Britain’s Got Talent. And this year, people with musical ability from around the world take the stage to try to realize their dreams, big or small.Sung-bong Choi, 22 winner of Korea’s Got TalentThe shy manual worker didn’t talk much about his dream, but he sang it out loud with his amazing voice.“In my fantasy I see a bright world/ where each night there is less darkness/ I dream of spirits that are always free/ like the clouds that float.”Choi was left in an orphanage when he was 3 years old and ran away two years later after being beaten. He sold gum and energy drinks on the streets to survive. “I slept on stairs or in public toilets for 10 years.”Jack Vidgen, 14a finalist of Australia’s Got Talent The ambitious teen’s dream is to become a bigger star than Justin Bieber.“I want to be a singer. I want to be an artist. I look at people like Justin Bieber and Katy Perry and Lady Gaga, and I think it would be great to be as successful as them,” said Vidgen, who started singing at 3.Vidgen first wowed the audience and judges in early May with his rendition of Whitney Houston’s I Have Nothing.Many are expecting him to be this year’s winner. Paul Gbegbaje,19Sixth place of Britain’s Got TalentThe pianist competed for a chance to perform for the Queen. “The Queen is someone who I respect greatly and it would be an absolute honor to perform for her. This has been a personal dream of mine before I ever knew about Britain’s Got Talent, so for it to actually happen would be amazing.” Sadly, Gbegbaje’s dream fell apart. Only the winner can perform at the Royal Variety Performance later this year.Zhuo Jun, 19winner of China’s Got Talent The young man from a small village of Guangxi province doesn’t dream big.“I just want more people to know that in Nanning, Guangxi province, there is a guy who is good at robotic dance,” said Zhuo. He learnt his incredible robotic moves by imitating Michael Jackson and South Korean stars on the Internet.Zhuo has lived his dream. He was crowned champion last Sunday night after beating seven other contestants.
