Magicians popping up
Sweating under stage lights, magician Wang Xianbo takes six metal rings, bumps them together one by one and then links the rings into shapes: a flower, a rickshaw, an airplane. For at least 2,000 years Chinese entertainers like Wang have performed the well-known "linking rings" trick. Baofeng, the self-proclaimed home of magic in China, is enjoying a boom as the whole country has gone magic-mad. More than 2,000 performers from around the globe are attending the World Championships of Magic in Beijing this week. Besides the official competition, several big shows feature magic that ranges from huge, David Copperfield-esque illusions to the more intimate, close-up magic popularized by Lu Chen, the magician of the moment.Lu, 33, who was judged by Copperfield as Taiwan’s top young magician at age 12, helped spark the recent craze with his beguiling performance on China’s top TV show this spring. Among his tricks: making a ring disappear and then reappear inside an egg, which he cracked open for the great reveal.Training schools for amateurs and professionals are mushrooming in Chinese cities, while thousands of college students want to compete in a university magic association.In Baofeng, where traditions of magic stretch back to the seventh century, entertainers and entrepreneurs have bucked the global recession by teaching the tricks of the trade. Sales of stage costumes jumped 30% this year, says Li Meichang, owner of the Star God store in Zhaozhuang.Magic fever "is helping every kind of magic to thrive in Baofeng," says historian Xu Qiu. "The local government encourages the industry because it helps the economy.""Dancing and pop music are no longer fresh, but magic makes people’s eyes pop out," says Wayne Wang, 45, of Beijing, a software entrepreneur who learned magic as a student in the USA. "Magic is new and fashionable to a lot of young people."’We are not a cult’Wayne Wang has tried for years to get government approval for a Chinese Magicians Association, akin to the Society of American Magicians. In China, magic falls under the control of the China Acrobatic Association, which is part of the Communist Party’s propaganda department, he says."It’s time to open up, to have a nationwide association, so all the individual magicians could join in," he says.College Magic, a student association, has not registered with the government, says co-founder Liang Ming, who is majoring in human resources management and has earned up to $7,300 for a single, private show."It’s not easy to establish a civil organization in China, but we do not disturb social order, and we are not a cult," he insists. "We are not doing real magic - it is fake, an illusion - and everyone knows that."Back in Baofeng, Mao, the octogenarian, entertains visitors to his home with old magic tricks such as making coins disappear. His son is a successful magician, and his 13-year-old grandson is continuing the family tradition."In the past, magicians were treated like criminals on the run," Mao says. "Now their position is as high as the sky. Young people can achieve their dreams."
