Seeing life in a small way
SONGWRITER Randy Newman once said: "Short people got no reason to live. They got little hands, little eyes. They walk around tellin’ great big lies." Not the friendliest thing to say, but more accurate than you might think. Researchers at Princeton University last week found that shorter people are less happy with their lives than taller people, and more prone to negative emotions. Of 450,000 people interviewed, those that rated their lives the "worst possible" were generally 2cm below average height.This doesn’t surprise Christopher Hamre, vice-president of the National Organisation of Short Statured Adults (NOSSA). "Back in 1997, I was walking down the Las Vegas strip," says Hamre, "A truck drove by and a man yelled at me, saying: ’Hey midget! Midget! I hate people like you, do you know that?’  He was loud and everyone on the strip heard him, including the two young ladies who passed by and laughed."According to NOSSA, prejudice against short people, or "heightism", is one of the world’s most under-reported social phenomena. Fat is mainstream. Short is the new taboo. Science doesn’t help matters. A study at the University of Groningen found that taller men had more success with the opposite sex and were more likely to win fights. Another study found that men who are 183cm tall or above are 50 percent more likely to be married or in a long-term relationship than men under 165cm or below. Height also helps you win votes. A study of US presidential elections between 1904 and 1994 found that, 80 percent of the time the taller candidate won.It’s tough being a short celebrity. Last week, French President Nicolas Sarkozy (168cm) was accused of arranging workers at a factory visit so that he could appear taller in photographs. Similarly, Tom Cruise is ridiculed for his height (173cm). When he married Katy Holmes (179 cm), there was speculation over how they were the same height in the wedding photos. Cruise was accused of a "Napoleon Complex" (named after the emperor who was 170cm). That’s an inferiority complex where short men overcompensate by being aggressive.Pressure for men to be tall is on a level with the "thin is beautiful" mantra. And, people are going to drastic lengths to conform to unrealistic standards.Meanwhile, Hamre will continue fighting for awareness. "I do not think that heightism is taken seriously by society. If you are short, you are the one that is supposed to change and, when treated unfairly, you’re supposed to remain silent. 
