Songs of a legend
I have a personal theory for considering whether a person is legendary: to see if he or she still has an impact after their death. Of course I’m talking about the person’s indelible influence in a certain realm.Michael Jackson, the “King of Pop”, certainly falls into this category. Nearly five years after his death, there’s no escaping him. The latest evidence, Xscape, his second posthumous album, arrives May 13 with eight unreleased songs the superstar recorded between 1983 and 1999. In case you didn’t know, that’s after Jackson’s early creative peak as a solo artist (with his 1979 breakthrough album Off the Wall and 1982’s Thriller).Just because the songs were recorded decades ago doesn’t mean they sound outdated. Certainly, you can sense the distinct feeling of the time period, but under the inventive guidance of executive producers, including Epic Records chief L.A. Reid and Timbaland, the songs are layered in modern electronic textures without overwhelming Jackson’s signature vocals or the overall structure of the tunes.All eight tracks are great for the dance floor. They have strong beats that rumble through your body. The opening song, Love Never Felt So Good, has the 1980s disco beats and crisp finger clicks, with warm, leaping strings, that recall the melodic and rhythmic punch of Jackson’s early work. The song has another version featuring pop star Justin Timberlake, who gives the song a more contemporary touch.Other tracks are edgier and more aggressive, both musically and lyrically. For Jackson, love and anxiety were often inextricably entwined in his music, and the best way for him to express this conflict was through his powerful, strong and flexible voice. Along with his trademark growls and hiccups, Jackson’s love, anger and passion is present throughout the album.When an album like this comes out, controversy seems inevitable. Some say it’s just another way for the record label to bring in millions of dollars, though Reid explained that it was done “in the spirit” of Jackson’s original plans.Nonetheless, fans worldwide are more than thrilled to hear their idol’s music again. And the album is a perfect reminder of just how important Jackson was. After all, not many artists can release their cast-off tracks and still sound so good.
