Reality TV romance
For over 14 years, television audiences have been captivated – or, perhaps, silently horrified – by a pair of American reality shows: The Bachelor and The Bachelorette.When the weather starts to warm, viewers instinctively settle down in their couches, ready to watch the latest single lady start her Bachelorette journey. This year’s installment, which kicked off on May 23, stars JoJo Fletcher, a 25-year-old real estate developer from Dallas, Texas.Fletcher, like all the bachelors and bachelorettes before her, is tasked with weeding through 26 contestants to find someone she’ll consent to marry on live television. No pressure or anything.Of course, while most seasons end with a proposal of marriage, very few of the show’s stars have actually gone through with the wedding. But that’s beside the point. What The Bachelor and its spinoff sell is a portrait of romance in the US – one that’s infuriatingly contradictory and, at its core, profoundly old-fashioned.The show’s set-up has all the makings of a super-charged prom. The potential mates arrive one by one in black limos, each hoping to make a swoon-worthy first impression on the titular bachelor or bachelorette. Tuxes and ball gowns are the uniforms of choice. The night creeps by with awkward banter, nervous giggles and the occasional meltdown.The only difference is, unlike your average high school prom, the liquor flows freely on these series. Let the alcohol-fueled drama begin.Successful suitors receive a prim red rose and a peck on the cheek at the end of each episode. The rest are sent packing. Back into the limo they go, teary-eyed and whining as they grapple with rejection.In some ways, it’s a very starchy affair, full of the same clichés you might find in a Disney princess movie. Watch any number of seasons, and you’re bound to hear the same lines over and over again: The bachelor or bachelorette at the center of the show is on a “journey to find love”, each convinced that their future spouse “could be inside the next limo”. It’s the search for The One, a perfect “soul mate” that shares his or her values.The franchise wears its conservative social mores on its sleeves, and yet, it thrives on its contestants’ transgressions. The sexual tension is palpable, what with the romantic dates, the hot tub meet-ups and candle-lit hotel rooms. But should a contestant dare to actually have sex, it becomes grounds for a grim-faced talk with the show’s host.Of course, these moments are the show’s bread and butter: They play to the culture war underway in the United States. The Bachelor franchise may speak the language of old-timey romance, but it delights in the intrigue of today’s “hook-up culture”.There are plenty of boundaries the show has yet to cross – after all, season after season, its contestants remain mostly white and entirely heterosexual – but what the Bachelor franchise does best is force a cultural conversation about the norms surrounding sex and marriage. Only time will tell if that conversation remains relevant or not.
