New hero in town
Ask people to name the first three or four superheroes who come into their heads and they’ll probably choose Superman, Batman, Spider-Man, and maybe Iron Man. What do these figures have in common? They’re all men, of course. It seems that only the male gender is good enough to be imagined with superhuman powers. There are several female superheroes, but they rarely get the attention that male superheroes enjoy.This month, Hollywood introduced us to an exception (例外) to this rule, in the form of Wonder Woman – or Diana, Princess of Themyscira.The character, played in the new movie by Israeli actress Gal Gadot, has been around since the 1940s. She even enjoyed some popularity in the 1970s when a TV version of her story became a big hit. In the show, Wonder Woman had distinctive (出众的) powers and many highly effective weapons (武器) to use in battle. She wore a tiara (头冠) that could be thrown with deadly effects. Her enemies feared her Lasso of Truth (真言套索), from which there was no escape.But however wonderful Wonder Woman was in the past, she was a male projection (投射). She had a highly sexual appearance that was made to appeal (吸引) to men. By contrast (相比之下), the new Wonder Woman – the product of a rethink about 10 years ago by Australian comic artist Nicola Scott and US comic book writer Greg Rucka – is a hero for women in a changing world, who still have to compete with men to claim their fair share of opportunities.This can be seen, for example, in the way that Wonder Woman ignores the patriarchy (父权制). She bursts into meetings full of men, doesn’t listen when men tell her she can’t do something, compares a secretary job to slavery (奴役), and constantly saves her male friends. Because she grew up on a far-away female-only island, Wonder Woman doesn’t know what the social expectations for women are and doesn’t care when she finds out. She also won’t apologize for being a woman.The movie champions (拥护) the femininity (女性特质) of Wonder Woman. Her power isn’t softened by caring too much or feeling emotional – things that are usually considered to be weaknesses of women. Instead, her love and kindness make her appear strong.“She’s on the field by herself,” Patty Jenkins, director of Wonder Woman, told USA Today. “It’s a battle with oneself to change the way the world works.”
