Debuting a Mature Sound
Ariana Grande, the 22-year-old pop diva, never fails to surprise the music industry. Her third album Dangerous Woman, released on May 20, has created new hype for the much-buzzed-about artist.Soon after its release, the new album went straight to number one on the iTunes charts in 67 countries. Grande’s popularity has made her the only artist to have the lead singles from each of her first three albums debut in the top 10 of Billboard Hot 100. So why is Dangerous Woman so popular?Grande’s albums are not simply a collection of songs, but a chronicle of her growth. Dangerous Woman symbolizes her maturity as an artist.This album is a breakthrough in her music career, as her most cohesive release to date. Compared to her last album My Everything, “which suffered for trying to be everything”, Dangerous Woman is “streamlined”, says Entertainment Weekly’s Nolan Feeney. With the help of “hitmakers such as Max Martin, she pulls off pop, R&B, and reggae– all without overextending herself or pandering to trends”, Feeney explains.Grande also uses the album as an opportunity to explore her personal experiences, including how she feels about being in love. Dangerous Woman takes its name from the kind of woman Grande intends to be. “To me, a dangerous woman is someone who’s not afraid to take a stand, be herself and to be honest,” she told Billboard.The lead single shares the same name as the album, and it echoes what Grande wants to express through the album. The song is about women’s empowerment and confidence. “It’s about letting someone into your life in an intimate or vulnerable way and not letting that take away your independence or your strength”, she said in a YouTube video. The song’s lyrics shine with the spirit of feminism.Grande, disguised in a bunny-eared mask on her album cover, hopes to inspire her listeners with her music. “I want to be empowering my fans... I feel like my personal growth is reflected in the sound. I’m really proud of it,” she said to Billboard.  21st
