Stars gather to pull in donations
Several hundred entertainment stars gathered to attract donations for earthquake-hit Yushu county during a China Central Television Station telethon on Tuesday evening.The donations mainly came from the country’s performing artists, dignitaries, news organizations as well as private and state-owned enterprises. The donations will be channelled to the quake zone through the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Red Cross Society of China.Donations raised during the telethon will go to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Red Cross Society of China and the China Charity Federation, according to Jin Yue, director of the four-hour telethon. "So many people and organizations around the country want to help. By presenting a telethon, we are providing a platform for all them to give a hand," said Jin, who also directed the station’s annual Spring Festival gala this year. The telethon was organized by the publicity department for the Communist Party of China Central Committee; the Ministry of Civil Affairs; the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television; and the Red Cross Society of China. "It is a special moment, and people’s eyes are all on Yushu. In the telethon, we were telling everyone what it is like now in Yushu, what people are doing，we recounted moments of the disaster and the rescue efforts. This telethon was, in a way, like a documentary," said Jin. Weizi, one of the actors who participated, was glad to be a part of it. "It is like your brothers and sisters are trapped in tribulations. How can you not lend a hand?" he said. "As celebrities we can use our star aura and call for more people to join in the charity cause. I see that people have shown great concern and support for the victims, but we as stars would love to inspire more sympathy and care." In addition, China’s private enterprises nationwide had given 529 million yuan (77.6 million U.S. dollars) as of 1 p.m. Tuesday.Material donations also reached 94 million yuan (14 million U.S. dollars) in value, said Zhu Ping, vice chairman of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce.The Chinese government allocated another 300 million yuan (43.9 million U.S. dollars), the Ministry of Finance said Tuesday.By 4 p.m. Tuesday, 34,468 tents, 77,402 cotton quilts, 55,407 cotton-stuffed coats, 1,106 tonnes of drinking water and instant noodles had been sent to quake zone.
