Kings of K-pop
It is one of the biggest boy bands in the world. Big Bang, as US’ Fuse TV channel put it, is the South Korean pop group with “arguably the most international recognition and awards”.Though the band only just wrapped up its world tour with a blowout concert in Seoul, the boys are back on the road this month. Starting on March 11, Big Bang will once again perform in China, for its 2016 Made [V.I.P] tour.This latest concert series marks Big Bang’s 10th anniversary as a band, but that’s not the only incentive for fans to attend this time around. Rumor has it that some of the band’s members may have to enlist in military service this year, as required by South Korean law. Some fans fear that this means Big Bang is disbanding.Big Bang has built a large fanbase, arguably thanks to one thing: its members’ diverse personalities. Big Bang is made up of five artists: T.O.P., 28; G-Dragon, 27; Taeyang, 27; Daesung, 26 and Seungri, 25.Each member contributes his own musical specialty to the group. Seungri is enthusiastic about pop, while Daesung is good at soaring power ballads. Taeyang specializes in R&B, G-Dragon is known for his hardened, rock ’n’ roll voice, and T.O.P. is an established rapper. As US director Leroy Bennett told The Sydney Morning Herald, “They’re a group of five very talented individual artists who, when solo, are very strong, but as a group they are massive.”During concerts, each member gets a solo moment to walk up to the front of the stage and showcase his musical talents. The boys also do their own choreography, and they show off their individual dancing skills on different parts of the stage.“Big Bang is at equal strength in every position. It’s terrifying how good each member is,” US music critic Rembert Browne wrote on the website Grantland. “They have found a way to make it seem like you’re at Drake, Usher, Katy Perry and Taylor Swift concerts all together. It is quite a sight to see.”This equal spread of talent is what makes Big Bang a K-pop trailblazer. Though the group is a product of South Korea’s star-making system, notorious for pretty faces and lip-synching, Big Bang’s members have broken the mold by developing their own musical styles and looks. This is rare in K-pop.“Big Bang’s members consider themselves artists, not idols. They create their own songs and their own messages,” Jamaica dela Cruz, the host of SBS PopAsia, an Australian music show, noted. “That authenticity could definitely contribute to their global success.”
