Time to get lippy
For beauty aficionados, the look is never complete without that finishing touch. And this fall, that touch is a bold lip. As US makeup artist Danessa Myricks explains on The Lady Loves Couture fashion blog: “After an effortless season of summer, women crave the return of drama... So now it’s time to up the ante... and the answer is lipstick.”From various colors to special functions, lipstick has truly reached a point of “no limit” this season. Read on as we compile fall 2016’s hottest lipstick color trends for those who dare to be different in the coming weeks and beyond.Black is backBlack lipsticks are no longer just for Halloween. Paired with a minimal base and lashings of mascara, a black lip can “evoke a modern and glamorous look”, according to Jess Hall of The London School of Media Make Up.Christian Dior, Marc Jacobs and Rihanna’s Fenty X Puma collection all showcase this noir trend on the runway. But to avoid looking like a spook, Hall recommends that fashion lovers keep their base and eye makeup simple. To take your lips to the next level, try lining and filling them with a matte black eyeliner to increase the longevity of that blackened pout, as well as to showcase your bolder look and to prevent any feathering or bleeding.So very berryBeauty often goes full circle–just as you think berry lips, which dominated the runways of two years ago, are so out of date; they are back with a vengeance. “These lips will be everywhere this season,” US makeup artist Samantha Manuzak tells Bustle. And they go well with all skin tones too. “One is never too fair or too deep to pull off a gorgeous berry,” Myricks wrote on The Lady Loves Couture.To draw a perfect berry lip, Manuzak offers some tips: “Drag down short vertical lines from your liner toward your mouth. Use your finger to smudge the lines downward toward your mouth until they disappear for a blended soft look.”Bare nude beautyVivid souls may choose black and berry lips, leaving the more conservative among us to stick to less-bold choices, but that doesn’t mean understated people can’t get some of the attention too. According to US fashion blogger Marjorie Harvey, now’s the time for the natural shade of nude to shine through. Brands such as Gucci, Bobbie Brown, and Maybelline are all showcasing nude tones in their shows. And the quintessential nude pout in peach has been a hallmark of many red carpet appearances this season, including pop star Queen Bey herself, according to Jose Rivera, a makeup artist from Benefit Cosmetics.Because nude is so driven by complexion, the key is choosing the right shade. Harvey suggests people to go with the color that resembles their skin tone, but a tad bit warmer.
