Can Japan’s ‘First Class’ live up to its name?
What’s the last Japanese TV drama that enjoyed the same success as Man From the Stars?I’ve been thinking about this since the South Korean TV series captivated a lot of Asian audience earlier this year. But the only answer I can think of so far is Tokyo Love Story, which was released more than 20 years ago. Ever since then not one Japanese series has even come close to that level of popularity.It’s actually quite sad to think that the two countries used to be competitive rivals in the Asian TV drama market, but now it’s just a lopsided battle.But this spring and summer, it looks like a few Japanese dramas have the potential to turn things around. First Class, which finished airing over the weekend, is one of them.The ten-episode drama is about the fierce rivalry among women working for a fashion magazine. Sawajiri Elika, 28, who returned to the TV screen after being absent for eight years, plays the role of Yoshinari Chinami, a young woman who starts as a part-timer but gradually pushes her way up. Along the way, she is frequently humiliated and bullied by her “enemies” like the chief editor, the assistant, the stylists, and even top models.It’s neither a complicated story nor a new idea, but for Japanese dramas, which have a long tradition of presenting social values in extreme ways — either simply inspiring or utterly dark — First Class has a bit of both sides and gets the balance just right.Compared with last fall’s Hanzawa Naoki，which also has an office setting, in First Class the story focuses on ordinary staff rather than an elite group. The fashion-related working environment attracts younger audiences, and the perspective of a modern-day Cinderella struggling to climb up higher in the corporate hierarchy also sounds more intriguing than a story of vengeance. Besides, China’s The Legend of Zhen Huan already set a good example of how an underdog can survive in a ruthless jungle.Of course, First Class isn’t as elaborately produced as the long-running The Legend of Zhen Huan, in terms of its plot, details and emotions. But in only 10 hours, it delivers a story of passion, which draws out the fate of different characters and reflects the face of society.In a time of Japanese TV dramas going downhill, the creators and writers of First Class certainly have done impressive job thinking outside the box, bringing hope to both fans and the industry.
