Time travellers’ happy ending?
Pretty faces, imperial conspiracies, a love triangle – The TV drama Palace, which aired on Hunan TV, was just another time-traveling story. But things got interesting when details of the ending were leaked on the Internet.The drama revolves around Qingchuan, a young woman from the 21st century, who time travels to the Qing Dynasty. There, she falls into a love triangle with Yinzhen and Yinsi, the fourth and eighth sons of the Kangxi Emperor. And according to the video clip released online, Qingchuan and Yinsi find their way back to 21st century in the end. That’s how it could happen. But the director Yu Zheng dropped a bombshell, claiming that he had shot three possible endings. In the other two possible endings, Qingchuan may be forced to get married to Yinzhen, the man she doesn’t love, while her husband Yinsi may end up dying in prison. But most Palace fans did not seem to want such surprises. A poll on the micro blog of Sina.com showed that 74 percent of respondents were in favor of the ending which had been leaked.“All I need is a happy ending,” said Zhu Xu, 23, an English major from Beijing Foreign Studies University. “I don’t expect any changes.”The good news is that there was no change at all. The ending shown on TV on Monday night turned out to be exactly the same one people had watched online previously.Many viewers were relieved that nothing bad happened to the love birds. But, after all the chaos, people are starting to wonder if there has always been only one ending and whether they have been fooled. If Yu Zheng did pretend that there were multiple endings, he is not the first director to play this game.In 1961, American film director William Castle’s horror film Mr Sardonicus allegedly had two endings. Which one was shown depended upon whether the audience gave a “thumbs up” or “thumbs down”. But the truth is Castle only ever filmed the “thumbs down” version. Like Castle, Yu Zheng has kept the audience glued to their seats. However, it is unlikely that multiple endings or assumed multiple endings will ever work for him again. So, as far as the sequel is concerned, let’s hope the director can avoid a leak.
