Fuel for self-discovery
FOR this 2009 graduation special, we aren’t following our usual Graduate Survival Guide. In the past, we’ve given you tips on how to adapt to new workplaces.Because of the economic downturn, more students are finding themselves without a career or direction, even upon graduation.If you can afford it, why not pack your bags and set off on another experience - a "gap year" - to discover the world and learn about yourself in the process?A gap year, also known as a year off, deferred year, or bridge year, refers to a period of a year or more between life’s stages. The most popular gap years are taken between high school and college, or college and professional work. In the past, they were mostly taken by people from western countries.Thanks to an improved standard of living, most grads don’t need to immediately rush out and earn some bread to feed their family. With a little help from their parents and some money from a part-time job, young people may have enough on hand to get things going.Moreover, this is the perfect time to travel on your own, work as a volunteer, or even study overseas. You can be better prepared to enter the workplace this way.This supplement lets you have a glimpse of some young people’s gap year experience as reference.WEI Xiaolong graduated from Lanzhou Jiaotong University in English in autumn 2005. But the then 24-year-old Wei did not take the regular job-hunting path or go on to postgraduate study. He decided instead to take a year off to go abroad."Life’s not a one-way path and I just wanted to explore other possibilities while I was young and accumulate more life experiences," Wei said.He took almost a year attending language classes and working part time to prepare. Finally he got to Marseille, France, in the autumn of 2006, and began to pursue his dream of seeing foreign lands and experiencing different cultures. "Old shabby houses on the steep hills, scattered garbage. I had no idea that France’s third-largest city was so small and untidy," was how Wei described his first impression.However, the shock didn’t set him back. He said that, in fact, it was one of many things that you gain from travel-"discovering reality".The reality Wei discovered on the road was not only landscapes, but the great importance of friends as well. When he was in Budapest, Hungary, he wanted to get a train ticket but found that his credit card didn’t work and that he didn’t have a penny to his name. It was a tough predicament, but a friend he’d met in China lent him some money and even showed him around. "Traveling in a foreign land taught me to greatly appreciate friendships," he said.Wei had a student visa that was valid for a year, so he took some time to study French at a local language school. Then, with Marseille as a base, he was able to travel to more than 15 countries in Europe by summer of the following year.To pay for this, he worked as a coordinator at a summer camp in Marseille, teaching Chinese, which brought him about $1,000 in two months. Gap year activitiesSome students spend the time traveling, others spend it working. One popular option for "gappers" is international volunteer work. Another growing trend is enrolling in a global education program that combines language study, homestay, cultural immersion, community service, and independent study. Useful website: www.gapyear.comThis provides useful information and advice for prospective gap-year students. You can talk to gappers who have been away for various advices.
