Perfect partnership formula
Tim Burton and Johnny Depp look alike. They sport equally wacky hair and tinted glasses, and stroke their artsy goatees as they talk. They cite similar artistic influences, mention their deep friendship (Depp is godfather to Burton’s first son) and even finish each other’s sentences.It’s no wonder the two have turned into Hollywood’s most prolific director-actor partnership. The release of Alice in Wonderland in China this week, where Depp plays the crazy Mad Hatter, marks their seventh collaboration.Director-actor partnerships seem to be as old as Hollywood. Sometimes directors are inspired by actors (Quentin Tarantino and Uma Thurman). Other times actors place complete trust in directors (Leo Di Caprio and Martin Scorsese). But in the case of look-a-likes Burton and Depp, their creative partnership is based on absurdity, trust, and a common love of dark, twisted storytelling.When they first met, Depp was on his way to becoming a teen idol. Burton challenged Depp, casting him as Edward in Edward Scissorhands (1990): a twisted fairytale about a boy with hands made out of scissors who yearns to find love. Depp’s faultless performance as a freak in suburbia made the film a modern classic. It also created the bonds of the Burton-Depp team. “When we first met, we connected on all these super absurd levels,” says Depp in Esquire.Now with a trusted partner, Burton went on to cast Depp in six more absurd roles. He played a legendary bad film director (Ed Wood, 1994), an investigator of decapitations (Sleepy Hollow, 1999), a man who accidentally marries a corpse (Corpse Bride, 2005), a crackpot chocolate maker (Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, 2005) and a murderous hairdresser (Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, 2007). So, when Burton signed on to make Alice in Wonderland, there was little doubt he would take Depp down the rabbit hole.Burton and Depp, in their unique style, re-imagined Wonderland as Underland–a creepy, colorful, jungle of wonder. They transformed the legendary Hatter into a gangly, circus clown, a man driven crazy by poison, who speaks in riddles and giggles like a school girl. Again the Burton-Depp combo–Depp’s performance in Burton’s fairytale–has proved a huge success. Alice in Wonderland arrives in China after topping global box offices three weeks in a row. If their partnership is anything to go by, more directors should stick with a formula once perfected.
