Kung fu rumble
Crime thrillers have always been the crown jewel of Hong Kong’s film industry. But in recent years, more Hong Kong directors like Tsui Hark (“The Taking of Tiger Mountain”) and Derek Yee (“I Am Somebody”) have shifted the focus of their films in order to attract Chinese mainland audiences.“SPL II: A Time for Consequences”, however, returns to Hong Kong cinema’s electrifying roots with taut and fast-paced action.The film opens with several seemingly disparate storylines: Organ trafficker Hung Man-keung (Louis Koo) struggles to find a heart donor; undercover cop Chan Chi-kit (Wu Jing) tries to survive in a grimy prison in Thailand; and prison guard Chatchai (Tony Jaa) desperately looks for a cure for his daughter’s leukemia. As the plot unfurls, their fates dramatically link together and a cruel and violent story plays out.Ferocious fight scenes are undoubtedly an essential element of a successful action movie, and “SPL II” delivers. Staring three veteran athletes-turned-actors trained in martial arts, “SPL II” flaunts creative stage combat and bone-crunching action sequences. The three stars show off different fighting styles: Jaa employs Thai fisticuffs, Wu utilizes close combat techniques, and Zhang is simply violent. Sparks fly as the stars rumble with one another.“In every action scene you see, real kung fu fighting skills are on display,” film director Pou-soi Cheang told China Daily. “It gives you a bit of a high when you watch stars in a real fight. There are no special effects, no stunt artists and no wires to fall back on.”Consistently stimulating fight scenes disguise narrative glitches, leaving audiences no time to ask questions, such as how a mobile phone that spent days floating in the sea still works.Aside from violence, Hong Kong action films emphasize heroism, brotherhood and humanity. “SPL II” contains all of these themes. The film also raises important questions about the ethics of black market organ dealing.Aside from Simon Yam and Wu Jing returning to the series as actors (but different characters), “SPL II” actually has little to do with its 2005 “prequel”. What’s the biggest thing they share in common? They are both fantastic Hong Kong-style action flicks.
