The toilet is just over there, sir
Chen Chuan, a 19-year-old student at Fudan University, is usually fast asleep at 6 am. But over the May 1 holiday, he was rising early to eat breakfast and gear up to answer questions like, “Where can I find the toilet?”Such is the life of a Shanghai World Expo volunteer. But Chen and his 72,000 colleagues aren’t complaining – at least, they’re trying not to.“Volunteering is very demanding work,” Chen said, “but it makes me feel fulfilled. Our effort is valued here.”If it weren’t for volunteers like Chen, the 200,000 tourists who poured into the Expo on May 1 would have had a different experience. They might have struggled to operate the pavilion reservation machines. They might have seen people jump their queue. They might have wandered all over the grounds looking for restrooms that were right under their noses.Chen’s volunteering stint runs through May 13 and from 8 am to 4 pm every day. When he finally boards a bus for the ride back to his dormitory at the end of each day, he says it takes him less than a minute to fall asleep. All those requests “just” for guidance can apparently tucker a person out.Taking turnsShanghai universities are taking turns to deploy student volunteers to the Expo. Some schools, like Fudan University, are giving their students two weeks off from classes to volunteer. “It’s like a small vacation,” Chen said. “We’re tired, but we don’t have to deal with studying for two weeks.”Some volunteers, however, aren’t as lucky. They find that while they’re answering questions about toilets, their classmates are busy attending classes and writing papers. “I’m a bit worried,” said Pan Zhijun, a 19-year-old sophomore volunteer from Tongji University. “What if the service affects my grades?”Fortunately, good news came over the weekend for Pan and the volunteers from Tongji University. Yang Yuanfei, the head of the Tongji University Youth League, told Oriental Morning Post that volunteers will be given opportunities to make up the classes and assignments that they miss.After the first day of the Expo, a BBS post titled “I couldn’t hold back so I cried” appeared on the Web. It was reportedly written by an Expo volunteer who went on to detail complaints from the first day on the job.Other student volunteers have come forward with similar feelings. Wang Lin, an 18-year-old volunteer from Fudan University who asked that her name be changed, recalled trying to explain to a tourist why a line to visit a pavilion was so long. When the tourist suddenly lost his temper, Wang became upset for being yelled at.“It was not my fault [the line was taking so long],” Wang said. “I didn’t expect we would have to endure so many difficulties in our service. It really dampened my passion.”Wang said she considered quitting. “We treat all visitors with hospitality and respect, and I think we deserve the same, she said”. But she eventually concluded that serving is about giving – not receiving.Still, the very next day, Wang received a reward of sorts when she helped a lost child find his parents.“The happy smiles and their gratitude made me feel so sweet,” Wang said. “That’s why I now always smile to others, even if they don’t look happy. Smiling makes me happy.”Refering to their green and white outfit, people call volunteers “Little Cabage”. Wang likes this nickname.“We’re green, we are fresh, just like the vegetable,” Wang said.
