Tintin leaps off the page into 3D
A new film about the adventures of Tintin, the Belgian boy reporter, opens across Europe this week.The movie, directed by Steven Spielberg, faithfully depicts the comic book world of Tintin on the screen.Critics have raved about the film, which had its world premiere counted in cartoon style, in 24 books penned by the Belgian illustrator and author Hergé, whose real name was George Remi.In each volume Tintin, accompanied by his faithful dog Snowy, has adventures that take the pair all over the world.For children, Tintin albums were a window on to the world. Tintin, Snowy and Captain Haddock meet Native Americans and cowboys, Bedouin in North Africa, discover Egyptian mummies, meet Scotsmen in kilts, and even fly to the moon.In the way Tintin explores foreign lands and engages with people, you might describe him as an exponent of multiculturalism.As Simon Kuper, a British author writes in the Financial Times: “During the 1930s Hergé was following current events and saving newspaper cuttings. He did so much research that Tintin books read like fictionalized documentaries for children.”Comic strip cartoons with speech bubbles were something new and Tintin became a popular character.However, everything changed when Belgium was invaded by the Nazis. Hergé fled to France, but returned to work on a mass circulation, pro-Nazi newspaper during the German occupation of Belgium. From 1940 Hergé wrote Tintin stories which couldn’t cause trouble or upset the Nazis.Kuper wrote: “The war forced Hergé into his own imagination. Hergé developed his storytelling genius during this period possibly because of a paper shortage. Hergé learned not to waste a single frame of his strip cartoon. Each picture takes the story forward.”Some have accused Hergé of cultural stereotyping, even racism.A Congolese man has asked a court in Brussels to remove copies of Tintin in the Congo from sale and libraries.Bienvenu Mbutu Mondondo argues that the book is littered with racist stereotypes of Africans who are portrayed as lazy and stupid.Mondondo said: “It’s a racist comic book which celebrates colonialism and the supremacy of the white race over the black race.”A lawyer for Mondondo argued that the book, written in 1931, breaches Belgium’s anti-racist laws. He said: “The book portrays the black man as lazy, docile and stupid and incapable of speaking French properly.”The publisher Casterman argues that the complaint is a threat to freedom of expression. Their lawyer said: “If we censor Tintin in the Congo it is all of world literature that will need to be in courts.”Hergé died in 1983. He justified the book by saying it was merely a reflection of naive views of the time. Scenes were revised for later editions.
