‘Bullets’ misses the target
In Gone With the Bullets, director Jiang Wen defines film as follows: “Movies are a kind of art to be commonly appreciated by the world.” But ironically, many who saw Gone With the Bullets left theaters unsure of what the director intended to convey.The storyline is straightforward. The movie is based on the true story of Yan Ruisheng, a middle class playboy who plotted the murder of a renowned prostitute in 1920s Shanghai. The narrative revolves around Ma Zouri (Jiang Wen) and his relationship with two women, beauty queen Wanyan Ying (Shu Qi) and Wu Liu (Zhou Yun), a filmmaker and warlord’s daughter.The film unfolds in Jiang’s signature style, featuring elements of satire, fantasy and comedy. The first 30 minutes of the film are more like a musical, as we are shown highly decorated sets with garish lighting and scantily clad women dancing sexily.Ma holds a lavish beauty contest in which Wanyan is chosen by the audience as winner for the third time after a stirring speech.The turning point is Wanyan’s mysterious death. Ma, the only one at the crime scene, becomes the most likely suspect. The second half of the movie is all about Ma’s struggle to prove his innocence and Wu Liu, the heroine, trying to rescue her beloved man.The movie defies what you would expect from a talented film auteur. Jiang’s last work, 2010’s Let the Bullets Fly, was highly regarded for keeping audiences on the edge of their seats and thinking about plot details long after the movie ended. Gone With the Bullets, however, fails to do that.Like a child, Jiang puts everything he likes into the movie. During the 140-minute runtime we see newsreel footage, musicals, film noir, stage plays, operas, and not to mention elements from better films like The Godfather and Chicago.In an interview with Mtime, the director said that the movie is a tribute to audiences with curiosity. But what most audiences want, probably, is a good story with emotional drama, not a pile of unnecessary baggag.
