Crazy games people play
The Sun is shining, the birds are singing - spring is finally here! So, it’s time to put away your textbooks and get into the spirit of the season. But, how can you make the most of this warm, happy season? Here are some activities that you can try with your friends and classmates.Jailbreak About the gameSome students from Lancaster University in the UK are going to have their annual Jailbreak Competition later this month. It is organized by the university’s division of Students in Free Enterprise, a non-profit organization, run by students, which helps to fund sustainable projects in developing countries.Traveling in pairs, participants have 36 hours to journey as far as possible, without spending any money. Before setting off, they are given posters and T-shirts, in order that they might raise as much money as possible. When they reach their destination, students are required to take a photo and buy a newspaper to prove that they were there. Prizes are awarded for most money raised and furthest distance traveled.Game talk Sorry to bother you, but we are trying to catch a ride west/east/north/south. Are you headed that way?”I think this is a good spot to get out. Can you pull over please? /Here is good. Thank you.Humans vs ZombiesAbout the gameYou don’t have to wait until Halloween to play a zombie game. Created in the fall of 2005 at Goucher College, US by students Brad Sappington and Chris Weed, the game Humans vs Zombies has taken the US by storm and is now played on more than 200 college campuses across the country. Many find that the game is a good way to make friends.How to play Everyone playing the game starts as “human” with the exception of one: the original zombie. If a player is touched by the zombie, he or she then becomes a zombie and is required to “tag” at least one human every 48 hours to stay in the game. If a human player manages to “stun” a zombie with a toy gun or a pair of rolled up socks (socks are recommended by school faculties), they are safe for the time being. The “stunned” zombie is not allowed to tag a human for a predetermined length of time.The game can last days, weeks or even all semester. If less than a certain number of humans survive the attack, the zombies win. Game talk We survive this by pulling together, not apart.Just go. I’ll cover you. We don’t have to be afraid anymore. We are safe here.
