The youth of yesterday
Chinese movie theaters are never running short on youth films. So Young, Fleet of Time and Yesterday Once More are just a few that hit the big screen in recent years.Here comes another one – Youth by director Feng Xiaogang, which was released on Dec 15. But this one is a bit different: It’s dedicated to the youth of our parents’ generation.Set in the 1970s, the story begins in a military arts troupe, in which the soldiers’ duties are to sing, dance and promote culture. He Xiaoping is a newcomer and a talented dancer. With a painful childhood, she wants to make a fresh start in the troupe, yet her family’s background makes her the laughing stock among the other girls. The only person who’s nice to her is Liu Feng, a kind and selfless man.In most youth films, the characters’ life paths are only influenced by their individual choices. However, the young people in Youth are also a part of “the whirlwind of historical change”, as film critic Justin Chang wrote in the Los Angeles Times. In a time span of more than 30 years, they have to experience the “cultural revolution” (1966-76) and the Sino-Vietnamese conflict (1978-79), during which Liu Feng loses an arm and He Xiaoping suffers from a mental illness. The disbandment of the troupe also tears them away from the life and people they’re so familiar with, throwing them into a new life they knew nothing about.They all have to learn to “make peace with the past and [make] the most of the present”, wrote reporter Giovanna Fulvi on the website Tiff.net.But there’s still something that never changes about youth. No matter what time of history it is, people share the same longing for love and beauty. Sunshine, laughter and swimming pools – these typical images of youth are all well kept by Feng in his new film.According to iFeng News, Youth is actually a nostalgic and personal work that Feng dedicates to his own experiences of working in a troupe.“When I look back in time, everything else in my life seems to be black and white,” he said. “The days in the troupe are the only part of my memory that always remains colorful.”
