Want a creepy kick? Check into a deadly hotel
For seekers of creepy kicks, there’s nothing quite like a bona fide gruesome death site. Hotels are primo spots for dubious deeds—including big-time murders, overdoses, and suicides. So here’s our list of 12 inns that hosted famous passings.7. Park Central Hotel, New York CityThe Park Central Hotel was the stage for one of the city’s most famous mob murders. On October 25, 1957, Albert Anastasia, creator of the long-running Gambino crime family, had his neck exposed ready for a shave when three gunmen burst in the door from the street and shot him several times. In 1928, Arnold Rothstein, the kingpin of the Jewish mob in New York, was found bleeding in the hotel. When the police asked him, on his deathbed two days later, to identify his killers, he said, "My mother did it."8. Raffles Hotel, SingaporeWhat a party it was: On August 20, 1945, five days after Japan’s surrender in the Second World War, 300 Japanese officers relaxed in the lobby of Singapore’s Raffles Hotel. Then, when evening rolled around, each pulled his ceremonial sword from its scabbard and literally fell on it. The Raffles was served as an administration center for the Japanese occupation of Singapore during the war.9. Bellevue-Stratford, PhiladelphiaThe Bellevue was the toast of Philadelphia until 1976, when it took out 34 guests in a single sitting. Following an American Legion convention in celebration of the Bicentennial, several attending Legionnaires began suffering pneumonia-like symptoms. A total of 221 people were afflicted, of whom 34 eventually died; near-pandemonium spread as fears of an epidemic circulated through the press.10. Westin St. Francis, San FranciscoIn September 1921, Silent-film comedian Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle attended a party at the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco during the Labor Day weekend. Bit player Virginia Rappe became drunk and ill at the party; she died four days later. Arbuckle was accused of raping and accidentally killing Rappe. Although he was declared not guilty, his films were subsequently banned.11. Talgarth Hotel, LondonOn December 2, 1969, Joel Dean Pugh, a member of Manson Family and a relative of the serial murder Charles Manson, was found with a slit throat in London’s Talgarth Hotel. What complicated the case was a series of notes written in backward script, as well as backward scribbles on the room’s mirror.12. Hacienda, Los AngelesAlthough American singer Sam Cooke was enjoying a huge run of success then, he checked into the Hacienda, a "$3 hotel" with a strange woman, and was shot there on December 11, 1964. The elderly hotel manager, who killed Sam Cooke, said: Cooke burst into her office wearing only one shoe and a sport coat, and threatened her with violence. In the struggle, Franklin said she shot Cooke and whopping him on the head with the broomstick for good measure. The L.A.P.D. never seriously investigated the case, ignoring evidences.
