Top 5 star divorces in second half of 2010
Celebrity divorces always hit the headlines as much as their luxurious weddings. With the sad end of a relationship, their photos hand-in-hand, diamond wedding rings or sweet kisses live on only in old magazines. In second half of 2010, we are sorry to find that five celebrity couples got divorced.1. Christina Aguilera & Jordan BratmanChristina Aguilera has filed for divorce from her husband.Christina - who married Jordan Bratman in 2005 after dating him for three years - has cited "irreconcilable differences" as the reason for the couple’s split. Christina said on October 12, 2010, that she and her music executive husband, Jordan Bratman, have separated after nearly five years of marriage. She said: "Although Jordan and I are separated, our commitment to our son Max remains as strong as ever."2. Morgan Freeman & Myrna Colley-LeeMorgan Freeman and Myrna Colley-Lee officially ended their 26-year marriage on September 15, 2010, his lawyer William R Wright has confirmed.The couple - who married in June 1984 and have two children together - separated in December 2007, but the news wasn’t made public until the following August.3. Courteney Cox & David Arquette"Friends" star Courteney Cox and her actor husband, David Arquette, have agreed to a "trial separation" but remain married while they work through the reasons for their split, the pair said on October 11, 2010."We remain best friends and responsible parents to our daughter and we still love each other deeply," Cox and Arquette said in a joint statement. Courteney Cox Arquette has no plans to divorce husband David Arquette.The two married in 1999 and have one daughter.4. Rachel Weisz & AronofskyOscar-winning British actress Rachel Weisz and her film director partner Darren Aronofsky have split up after nine years.Weisz, 40, who won a best supporting actress Oscar for the 2005 movie "The Constant Gardener", and Aronofsky, 41, the director of "The Wrestler" and new release "Black Swan" were together for nine years but did not marry. They have a four year-old son together.5. Eva Longoria & Tony Parker"Desperate Housewives" star Eva Longoria filed for divorce on November 17, 2010  to end her three-year marriage to basketball player Tony Parker, following revelations of his text messaging with another woman.Eva wrote: "It is with great sadness that after 7 years together, Tony and I have decided to divorce. We love each other deeply and pray for each other’s happiness."The marriage was Longoria’s second. Her marriage to "General Hospital" TV actor Tyler Christopher ended in 2004 after two years.
