Grand Budapest checks in
When a director’s style remains entirely consistent with each successive film, it’s only natural that you might get bored. Shots, stories and setups become predictable, and audiences eventually move on to something more likely to offer the element of surprise. The Grand Budapest Hotel finds US director Wes Anderson back in familiar stylistic terrain, but his particular whimsical touch hasn’t overstayed its welcome, and it’s arguably at its most engrossing.The Grand Budapest is a colorful hotel located in the war-torn mountains of a fictional 1930s European country. It functions as a temporary home for the kind of characters only Anderson could imagine. There are wealthy spinsters, melancholy artists on vacation and, as every good hotel requires, doting attendants ready to meet their guests’ every need.The story centers on Monsieur Gustave H. (Ralph Fiennes), the hotel’s concierge, and his promising young protégé, Zero (Tony Revolori). After one of the hotel’s prominent guests (and Gustave’s mistress) passes away, Gustave is awarded her most prized possession– a painting. Outraged at having lost the heirloom to Gustave, the woman’s son (played by Adrien Brody) initiates a deadly manhunt that eventually drives our concierge into prison. Gustave and Zero must rely on each other to elude their adversaries without losing track of the painting.With The Grand Budapest Hotel, Anderson has created yet another movie only his mind could imagine. But this time around, things are a bit more thoughtful. The WWII-esque backdrop over which the story unfolds evokes the harshness of that time without lingering on it and letting it spoil the movie’s mood. Instead of bombarding viewers with the realities of life in a Nazi-occupied nation, the movie subtly reminds them of this bitter chapter in world history.In taking a lighter approach toward this subject matter, Anderson allows for viewers to steep themselves in the movie’s sense of nostalgia. This particular time period and location proves to be an excellent playground for Anderson to explore both visually and through narrative. As always, the world through Anderson’s eye is colorful, quirky and, in the end, not such a bad place after all.
