World loses Leonard
Through much of his life, Leonard Cohen was a man on the move.The Canadian singer, songwriter, poet and novelist died on Nov 10, leaving behind a musical *travelogue that documented his journey in lyrical detail while exploring questions of faith and morality, sex and betrayal, love and hate. He was 82.“I have no program. I have no five-year plan,” he told a crowd during a 1985 performance. “I just move from hotel to hotel and from bar to bar, and by the grace of the one above, occasionally a song comes.”Cohen’s first musical successes came during folk’s great leap forward in the late 1960s, alongside Canadian singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell and US musician Bob Dylan. He introduced himself to the world with now-standards including Bird on a Wire (1969), Suzanne (1966), Sisters of Mercy (1967) and So Long Marianne (1967), and across the next five decades issued 14 studio albums dense with wit, charm, cruelty, harsh self-judgment, bitterness, grace and profound, enduring empathy.A novelist and poet first, Cohen mastered his craft across the decades, and singers lined up to record his work, including American musicians and bands such as Nina Simone, Johnny Cash, Tori Amos, Lana del Rey, Nick Cave, Jennifer Warnes and R.E.M.“My tunes often deal with a moral crisis,” he told US writer Harvey Kubernik. “I often feel myself a part of such a crisis and try to relate it in song. There’s a line in a poem I wrote that sums this up perfectly: ‘My betrayals are so fresh they still come with explanations.’”The *trajectory of his lyrical adventures ranged from memories of romance in Chelsea Hotel No. 2 (1974), to committing to a *monastic life at a Buddhist *retreat in which he composed gorgeous meditations and recollections on life, death and the space in between.In his 2012 song Come Healing, he wrote of the “longing of the branches to lift the little bud” and the “longing of the *arteries to purify the blood”.Across the decades, he penned work that combined wit, intellect and an ear for a sharp turn of phrase, yet he was merciless on himself. “I am not this *hunchback that you see,” he sang in Avalanche (1971).He described his “secondhand physique” on one version of A Thousand Kisses Deep (1996). The *interlude during Chelsea Hotel No. 2 quotes his lover: “You told me again, you preferred handsome men/ But for me you would make an exception.”*Loath to repeat himself in song, Cohen pushed his pen in new directions until the very end. His swan song, You Want It Darker, was issued just last month. On the title track, he acknowledged his artistic success while *belittling his life’s challenges, singing that he “struggled with some demons, they were middle class and *tame.”As with every line he wrote, his gaze was *unflinching as he faced the final goodbye. “I’m ready my Lord,” he offers in the title track. “I’m ready.”
