Bigelow: Queen of the world
One of Hollywood’s “celluloid ceilings” has been smashed now that Kathryn Bigelow has become the first female ever to win a Best Director Oscar.“There’s no other way to describe it, it’s the moment of a lifetime,” said a clearly overwhelmed Bigelow, at the awards ceremony in Los Angeles, on Sunday.She was up against the highest grossing film of all time, Avatar. But Bigelow’s gritty small-budget film, The Hurt Locker, swept the awards with six trophies, including Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and the big one: Best Picture.Many Hollywood insiders are calling this year’s awards the “Indie Oscars”, with smaller films taking the other top awards.This was due in large part to outstanding individual performances: Jeff Bridges in Crazy Heart (Best Actor), Sandra Bullock in The Blind Side (Best Actress), and Mo’Nique in Precious: Based on the Novel ‘Push’ by Sapphire (Best Supporting Actress).But all eyes were on Bigelow, as her movie about an explosive-ordinance disposal unit in the Iraq War beat Avatar to the major awards. This was sweetened by the fact Avatar’s director, James Cameron, is her ex-husband.Bigelow was only the fourth female ever to be nominated for Best Director. She followed in the footsteps of Lina Wurtmuller, for Seven Beauties (1976); Jane Campion, The Piano (1993); and Sophia Coppola, Lost in Translation (2003).Bigelow played down the momentous occasion last week, telling CBS, “There’s really no difference between what I do and what a male filmmaker might do. I mean we all try to make our days, we all try to give the best performances we can, we try to make our budget, we try to make the best movie we possibly can. So in that sense it’s very similar.”“On the other hand, I think the journey for women, no matter what venue it is–politics, business, film–it’s a long journey.”Ironically Bigelow’s cinematic journey could not have strayed farther from the path of female directors before her. Her filmography is filled with action movies that are low on female leads and high on guns and steel. Her films focus on men: their fears, bonds and rites of passage.Point Break was her breakout film in 1991. The action film features Keanu Reeves as an FBI agent who goes undercover to investigate a gang of surfing bank robbers. It reached cult status because of its strong but flawed male characters.The Hurt Locker is in the same style. The war pic features an anti-hero, William James (Jeremy Renner who was also nominated for the Best Actor Oscar), leading a crew of competing male egos in removing roadside bombs around Iraq. James is addicted to risk taking and enjoys putting his fellow soldiers in constant peril. Many scenes feature dramatic confrontations of clashing male personalities.By focusing on these male relationships, critics praised The Hurt Locker for avoiding overt political statements (something Avatar was heavily criticized for), and instead painting a truthful picture of modern war.And is there an entertaining end to the story of Bigelow’s victory? She won on International Women’s Day.It is, after all, Hollywood.
