Showdown between talent judges
The long summer vacation isn’t quite here yet, but TV stations in China are already fighting over the most popular singing competition this season.Programs such as the ongoing The X Factor and Chinese Idol, and the upcoming second season of The Voice of China, will be making headlines in the coming months.In these programs, which are adapted from US and UK talent shows, judges, or mentors, certainly get much of the attention. Below, we pick some representative judges and compare them on these programs with their Western counterparts and discuss what different styles you’re likely to find.The X Factor China (Hunan TV)Judges: Zhang Ziyi, Eason ChanThe X Factor China jumped on the mentor bandwagon. Due to its complicated program flow (in earlier episodes mentors spent much of their time talking), the Chinese version feels more like a therapy session or a psychological game, as mentors must take several factors into consideration and respond quickly.Surprisingly, Zhang Ziyi, the only judge who has no background in music, has got the hang of it more than anyone else. Whenever Zhang needs to make a decision, she appears calm and confident — her emotional intelligence really shines through. In comparison, Chan, whose emotions are written all over his face, is often under the table.Furthermore, when Zhang plays the “only female judge” card, the gentlemen bow to her — that includes music veteran Lo Ta-yu and rocker Zheng Jun.Way to go, Zhang. Your kung-fu-master temperament in films totally transfers to the judging panel.The X Factor USA (Fox) Judges: Britney Spears, Simon CowellThe second season of The X Factor USA had one of the world’s most elite judging panels. Spears, the legendary pop diva, needs no introduction. What about Cowell? In short, he’s the TV producer behind The X Factor franchise, and also created American Idol and Britain’s Got Talent.Just when you thought Cowell, who was known for being mean and harsh during American Idol, had gradually turned soft and gentle, here comes his successor — Spears.Despite her sweet appearance, Spears is a sharp-tongued judge. She once told a contestant who paid tribute to her by singing several of her classic hits, “No offense, but that really disgusts me.”That’s nothing but offensive and Spears had better learn to sugarcoat her comments, because evil judges are so out of date now.Chinese Idol (Dragon TV) Judges: CoCo Lee, Han HongThe debut season of Chinese Idol brought about an incomprehensible friendship between the two female judges — CoCo Lee and Han Hong.The two are getting along so well that you may wonder how they became friends. They take pictures together and post them on Sina Weibo; they compare notes backstage and sing I Will Always Love You; in one episode, Han even revealed that she taught Lee a few Chinese curse words, which they then showed off — on TV.However strange their friendship may seem, they know how to use the show for self-promotion. For example, last month, Lee debuted a new song from her long-awaited new album on the show. Meanwhile, Han, who was touched by contestant Leng Wanwan’s original song Youth, bought the copyright from her and plans to record it as a new song.Smart women rule.American Idol (Fox) Judges: Mariah Carey, Nicki MinajThe pre-season buzz and the early episodes of American Idol’s 12th season were dominated by the feud between Carey (L) and Minaj (R). The two had an infamous fight when Minaj was late for a show recording. The clip didn’t air on TV but went viral on the Internet, of course. At the end of the season, both of them announced they would leave the show and focus on their music careers.Speaking of which, in 2009, Carey collaborated with Minaj on the music video of her song Up Out My Face, in which they played Barbie sisters. That was a time when Carey was having a career flop and Minaj wasn’t yet a household name in the US.You know what they say: Fame often kills the good in a person, so don’t forget where you come from.The Voice of China (Zhejiang TV) Judges (season one): Liu Huan, Na Ying, Yang Kun, Harlem YuDespite the rumors of some contestants in season one, we have to admit that The Voice of China is the best of the bunch when it comes to focusing on music talent. And the credit mostly goes to the four mentors.In the first season, Liu Huan, Na Ying, Yang Kun and Harlem Yu were all pretty serious about their job as music mentors. From picking members for their teams, to the final showdown, they spent time thinking about what’s best for each member and becoming connected with their proteges. Together they raised the bar for the TV singing competition and pioneered the “era of mentors” on Chinese TV.No matter who will be the final judges in the upcoming second season, we hope the show stays on its current track and keeps giving contestants a chance to shine.The Voice (NBC) Judges: Adam Levine, Blake SheldonWhile other judges come and go, Adam Levine and Blake Sheldon always stay in their chairs. Fans of The Voice know how much fun the pair has with each other on the show. They tease each other, especially when fighting over a desirable contestant. Their words are flirtatious, and sometimes they even touch each other on the arms or face.Levine and Sheldon’s bromance (a combination of brother and romance) has even offended Sheldon’s wife, US country singer Miranda Lambert. The National Enquirer magazine reported that “Miranda always thought Levine was a bad influence on her husband because the two played hard and partied hard.”
