In the mind of cocaine kingpin
When it comes to drug lords, there’s no matching the “King of Cocaine”, Pablo Escobar. The sharp rise and gradual fall of the Colombian drug baron never lacked dramatic potential. So it should come as no surprise that Netflix chose Escobar as inspiration for its new 10-part series, Narcos.Taking its title from the South American term for drug dealers, Narcos reveals how Escobar fueled cocaine use in the US and founded the Medellin Cartel, an infamous organization that supplied and smuggled drugs around South America, the US, Canada and Europe.But the series does more than just chronicle Escobar’s exploits. It attracts the audience by giving its story both breadth and depth.Narcos portrays all the people entangled in Escobar’s larger-than-life story, on both sides of the law and around the globe, according to The Hollywood Reporter.That also adds to the storyline’s complexity. “The lines between heroes and villains become somewhat blurred,” Movie Pilot reported.Escobar called himself the “Colombian Robin Hood”, and the series depicts him helping the poor. Meanwhile, the Drug Enforcement Administration is shown to occasionally overstep the boundaries of law and morality in order to nail the drug dealers.It’s nerve-wracking to watch the games that law enforcement and drug dealers play with each other. But as unbelievable as these scenarios seem, the audience has to keep in mind that the series is based on real stories.In fact, Narcos interweaves fictionalized drama with actual archival footage. That gives it “the educational feel of a documentary,” wrote The Telegraph.However, The Hollywood Reporter says the series “embraced history a little too tightly”. For its first episode, Narcos shows what the US looked like during the Cold War. Too often, Narcos feels like “it’s narrating a book, not a movie”, the Reporter wrote.But The Wrap praised Brazilian actor Wagner Moura, who plays Escobar, for making the series amicable and convincing to the audience.He piled on 40 pounds (about 18 kg) and moved to Escobar’s hometown of Medellin, Colombia, to learn Spanish and to better understand the drug lord.“Menacing but never melodramatic, Moura is exceptionally convincing and subtle as a man determined to do whatever it takes to become rich, powerful and feared and stay that way,” commented The Wrap.
