Let your telly be your tutor!
The fall TV season is in full swing–old favorites are back and new shows have premiered. But after all the cutbacks, after Ugly Betty said goodbye, what’s left to get you through the chilly days?Here, 21st Century does a roundup of what’s on offer this fall and helps you choose the best shows to brighten those darker evenings.Youth speakIf you’re interested in foreign youth culture, check out the following:Gossip GirlWatch this show to sample some girltalk between best friends. Serena and Blair’s fights and make-ups continue as both the girls go to Columbia after high school. Blair: Stop whatever you’re doing. We need to shop.Serena: B, only for you.One Tree HillThis long-running hit has moved on to its eighth season. Two things, however, remain constant in this show: basketball and buddies. This would be the show to teach you the intricacies of buddy talk.Lucas: Why are women so screwed up?Nathan: Let me guess – Peyton.90210The teen drama revolves around several students at the fictional West Beverly Hills High. The show is packed with the latest teen slang which you can then try out on your friends.Naomi: Ewww, I look like a Cullen! (The Cullen family is a vampire family from Twilight.)Workplace EnglishIf you’d like to take a look at what’s happening in the workplace and get some tips on how to speak to your current or future boss, check:Lie To MeDr. Lightman is a gifted face reader who can tell if you are lying, but he is also a tough, quirky boss who can sometimes be rude and unreasonable. Watch and learn how to deal with a boss like Dr. Lightman.Lightman: Come in here. Make yourself useful.The OfficeThe comedy featuring a group of idiosyncratic employees at a paper company can offer some business humor.Dwight: It is called a “ladies room” for a reason. And if you cannot behave like ladies, well then you are not going to have a bathroom.The Good WifeWhen her husband is jailed after a very public sex and corruption scandal, Alicia returns to her old job as a defense attorney. Learn from this smart and reserved woman who always chooses her words carefully.Julius: You think he’s innocent?Alicia: No, I think he’s innocent of this.American humorIf you are a big fan of American humor and would like to pick up some good one-liners, try:Big Bang TheoryThis show about four geeks and a less intelligent beauty always hits the spot. To make it even funnier, Sheldon starts dating a neurobiologist named Amy in this new season. A geek dating a nerd – just imagine the comic potential!  Sheldon: Amy pointed out that between the two of us, our genetic material has the potential of producing the first in a line of intellectually superior, benign overlords to guide humanity to a brighter tomorrow.Modern FamilyThe 2010 Emmy Award winner for best comedy continues to tickle the funny bone with its second season. The three families still have lots of issues to deal with, but they never fail to churn out punch line after punch line.Jay: Don’t most kids drink soda?Manny(12-year-old): Who knows what they do? 
