Top 10 travel regions for 2016
10. ST HELENASt Helena, now accessible only by ship, will gain a long-mooted airport. Tourists are unlikely to overrun this speck in the South Atlantic Ocean, but the islanders are building a 32-room hotel just in case. Whatever happens, it won’t change the relaxed pace of life here, nor lessen the lure of a place as curious now as it was when Charles Darwin swung by in 1836.9. COSTA VERDEAll eyes are on Rio in 2016 as it hosts the Summer Olympic Games, but a few miles west of this metropolis you’ll find a pristine stretch of shoreline composed of emerald peaks, peaceful islands, and near-deserted beaches. Brazil’s Costa Verde (‘green coast’) is a paradise for nature lovers.8. BAVARIABavaria: storybook castles, magic forests, medieval villages.... an endless tapestry of tourist treats unfolds between the Alps and Franconia. The region’s capital, Munich, bewitches as well with its sweeping gardens, superb museums, grand palaces and, of course, Oktoberfest, the world’s biggest beer bash.7. HAWAIIHawaii’s sand and surf need no introduction, but the archipelago broadens its appeal next year for lovers of food, history and adventure. Hawaii Regional Cuisine, a culinary movement that began in the 1990s, has become a fully fledged way of life; the islanders are gearing up for the 75th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbour; and two of the premier attractions – Haleakalā National Park and Volcanoes National Park – turn 100. Expect a slew of exhibitions to commemorate these momentous events.6. AUVERGNE REGIONCast your eyes upon the Auvergne’s dramatic volcanic landscape and you could be forgiven for thinking you were in Iceland rather than the heart of France. And yet this region has been overlooked by visitors. No more, though – the Auvergne is reinventing itself with a series of ambitious art projects and a growing portfolio of wilderness adventures.5. WAIHEKE ISLANDIt’s only a 35-minute ferry ride from Auckland, but Waiheke is a utopia of coves, beaches, vineyards, bohemian sensibilities, and above all, fun.4. FRIULI’S WINE REGIONSUnless you’re a wine buff, the name might mean little to you right now, but Friuli – to the northeast of Venice – has garnered a cult following. The region’s picturesque wine routes, which crisscross a checkerboard of vineyards between Udine, Gorizia and Trieste.3. VALLE DE VIÑALESThat Cuba has come in from the cold is not news, but most people’s knowledge of the country extends no further than crumbling but cool Havana and the beaches of Varadero. To see a lesser-known side of Cuba, head to the heartland of Valle de Viñales, where farmers’ oxen still plough the Unesco-listed landscape.2. WEST ICELANDWest Iceland is a greatest hits reel of what makes this country unique – cloud-wreathed glaciers, rugged lava fields, thundering waterfalls… it’s all here, just a two-hour drive from Reykjavík, and yet the region remains largely off tourists’ radars. 2016 might be the year the west won, however, as “Into the Glacier”, a man-made ice cave in the Langjökull glacier, is now open to the public.1. TRANSYLVANIAPut the crucifix away and discard that bulb of garlic – you won’t be needing them in today’s Transylvania, which blows away stereotypes faster than the flapping wings of a bat out of hell. Yes, horses and carts still rumble through the wooded countryside, but they’ll soon share the roads with Uber cabs ferrying visitors to chic Airbnb lodgings. Look past the “Count Drankula” T-shirts and you’ll notice an ever-increasing number of art galleries, good value ski resorts and epic nature tours.
