Stylish start to cold season
The chilly months ahead demand an update of your wardrobe. But before you take out your purse and swipe your credit card, take a minute to find out what’s in vogue for this fall and winter season.Over-the-thigh bootsThis trend has been popping up on the runways season after season. Obviously it’s here to stick around. Celebrities are flaunting it flawlessly. Heidi Klum recently donned a suede style in the spirit of Emilio Pucci’s collection, while Miley Cyrus has made quite a lot of headlines in hers.Over-the-thigh boots for this season come either with heels or flats. Whichever you pick, make sure you’re comfortable in them. You can match them with shorts for a hot girl look or with skinny jeans for warmth.leated SkirtsThe vintage throwback style continues with pleated skirts that borrow from the 1970s and early 1980s with their high waists and pleats. From Calvin Klein to Celine, the look was everywhere during the 2013 Fall/Winter Fashion Week.However, these skirts do have a reputation for being unflattering on many body types, making the wearer look shabby and unattractive. But the truth is, anyone can pull off this style, as long as you find the pleats that best suit your body. Stitched-down pleats that lie flat at the top are ideal for a tummy. Accordion pleats are full through the hips, so you get an hourglass effect. Knife pleats have the least volume, so they’re perfect for bigger bumsOversized CoatsRemember those days when we were trying so hard to force ourselves into small sizes? Well, you can give yourself a break this season.Big, bulky, oversized coats, which pay homage to the late 1980s and early 1990s, are all the rage for the fall and the coming winter. Designers such as Celine, Stella McCartney, and Carven have really pushed the trend. High-street stores such as Zara, H&M, Topshop, and ASOS are already offering their more wearer-friendly versions.But there are some styling tips you should keep in mind. First, you should balance out the bulk on top with slim bottoms, like tights, or skinny or super tailored trousers. Also, keep your footwear graceful and minimal. Chunky platforms or rough boots could make you look like an ogre as opposed to a modern day lady.
