Unbeatable fun
Most people prefer to stay in their comfort zones, doing things they are good at. But there is a group of gamers that takes the opposite path, choosing instead excruciatingly difficult – some might say impossible – games.Recently, one of those games, a puzzle app called Unbeatable Game – IQ, topped Apple iTunes’ list of most downloaded apps. And a few months ago, Mr. Jump– a game that requires you to continuously tap your mobile screen like the original impossible game Flappy Bird – reached more than 5 million downloads within the first week of its release.Jokingly referred to as a favorite for masochists, impossible games have gained in prominence. They have advanced beyond the simplistic format of Flappy Bird, to include endless running or complex puzzles. They also feature exasperating challenges and infinite-playing modes.The popularity of impossible games is propelled by gamers’ hunger for ever-greater challenges. Players measure their success not by completing missions, but by delaying failure.“What makes those tough games appealing is that glimmer of joy a player gets from even the smallest achievements,” Jamin Brophy-Warren wrote for the Japan-based news website kotaku.com.Constant failure can be dispiriting, but even small improvements in a player’s performance can encourage perseverance.In Mr. Jump, for example, each failure can teach gamers to beware of certain ambushes and keep the right pace to progress further in the game.At first, Flappy Bird seems easy, as it only requires players to pilot a bird past narrow pipe gaps. But the game suddenly challenges you with seemingly impassable obstacles. Most gamers end up frustrated, cursing their slow fingers as the bird flies out of control or the pipe moves faster than they expect.“It’s about the feeling of obstacle,” Jesper Juul, videogame researcher from MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), told The Wall Street Journal. “You get stuck somewhere and feel stupid. That can lead to a sense of triumph if one does eventually succeed.”Some impossible games have also made use of “peer pressure” to foster popularity, noted Forbes reviewer Anthony Kosner.Unbeatable Game – IQ, for example, allows gamers to show off their high scores to friends, after they triumph over the app’s frustrating puzzles.However, after sharing their scores, players might find themselves in another infinite game, this time in the real world. They may feel the pressure to endlessly keep improving their scores, to prevent their friends from outperforming them.
