Artistic nude photography vs conservative minds
According to Henan Business Daily, 10 photography enthusiasts and three young women arrived in Shenxiandong Forest Park, Xinmi City in Central China’s Henan Province and prepared for artistic nude photography the morning of June 9.During the photo shoot, more and more local villagers and visitors gathered around and many photographed the naked models with their mobile phones.About two hours later, several men suddenly rushed toward the shooting area, and one lashed at the models with tree branches as he shouted, "Get out of here."Photography enthusiasts: "This is the arts.""Since the 1990s, Chinese people have started to accept different kinds of art forms, including artistic nude photography," Mr. Wang, a photography lover from Zhengzhou, said. "As early as 2001, Xi’an (a Chinese inland city) had already held several human body photography exhibitions."According to Wang, at that time there was one specific incident that impressed him most. A man said to his wife after visiting the exhibition that those photos were obscene. His wife replied, "You don’t know anything about arts. You should read the implied meaning of these photos, rather than only look at them.""It seems that the traditional villagers in this closed place cannot understand and accept this kind of art form," Wang added.Nude model: "I am not a ’doll’ played by everyone."According to Mrs. Zhang, the agent of the nude model, her 20-year-old client is a college student and has been a part-time nude model for three years."My client had been chosen to model by photography lovers several times. The pay we get each time is different, varying on the shooting content and spots for photography," Mrs. Zhang said. "This time we earned 2,000 yuan (US$292)."The model said, "I’m the model invited by the photographers, rather than the doll that has photos taken freely or to be watched by the crowd."Wu Guangwei, the manager of Shenxiandong Forest Park, said, "The photographers and their models bought tickets to get into our scenic spots, and it is legal to take photos here. So we have no right to prevent them from entering into the park."Visitors: "I would never allow my daughter to be a nude model."Visitors seeing the shoot hold two quite different views. Some appreciated the display as art. Others said that they could not accept it. A female visitor surnamed Ma said that young people should first know how to respect themselves and then learn to respect the so-called arts.Another visitor from Zhengzhou who is surnamed Zhang passed the nude model with hands over her eyes. She said, "In the current open era, I can appreciate this kind of art. However, I would never allow my daughter to be a nude model."
