Mixed debut for Zhao Wei
The reason I wanted to see So Young is that it’s Zhao Wei’s directorial debut. I guess I didn’t expect much else.Is it a mature first project for the actress? Definitely. Is it a good film in general? Not in my opinion.So Young has everything a popular youth film should have: Beautiful young actors, a story about colorful campus life and intricate romance, and a strong sense of nostalgia.The leading female character Zheng Wei (Yang Zishan) enrolls at university to stay close to her childhood sweetheart Lin Jing (Han Geng). But when Lin moves abroad to pursue his education, life loses its luster for Zheng. Until she meets the dashing yet aloof Chen Xiaozheng (Mark Chao).The film also features a bunch of vivid supporting characters: The campus queen who falls for a worthless wretch, the rich kid who is rejected by his dream girl, and Zheng’s boyish roommate with a huge ego.Together they put on quite a show under Zhao’s direction and her smooth and aesthetic camera work. You’ll find yourself laughing over their trivial yet funny life on campus in the early 1990s.As expected, the film’s second half takes the audience to years later when the characters have moved on into different corners of society. But the film unexpectedly breaks with the comedic vibe and turns into a serious discussion about the meaning of life and love.Through the events in their current life and flashbacks of their college years, the film portrays how life has changed these characters. And that’s where the film goes awry.The emotional transition of the characters seems overhasty. If you watch the 2011 youth film You’re the Apple of My Eye, you’ll find that the film’s resonance with the audience accumulates from the beginning ― through details like sexual fantasies and crushes in puberty ― and peaks in the end. In So Young, the sudden emotional touch with endless rhetorical lines just isn’t enough to strike a chord.Zhao also clearly wanted to give every character a proper ending. But unfortunately she tried a bit too hard, making the film’s second half feel lengthy and unedited.Even so, given my reasonably low expectations, Zhao still gets full credits for her effort as a first-time director. Without her insightful input and observations, I think the film would have been worse.Just as time wrinkles the skin but enriches the soul, a mediocre film may as well be the best motivation for Zhao to make better ones in the future.
