Comic classic returns
Many from Asian countries can remember wishing they had their own Doraemon in their childhood. The manga character, created by Japanese cartoonist Fujiko F. Fujio in the 1970s, is cute, smart and has tons of amazing gadgets in his pocket.Starting from Dec 1, the birthday of the late Fujio, Doraemon is returning in a new comic series, which compiles chapters not included in the original 45-volume manga series. This is the first new Doraemon work since it ended eight years ago.NobitaMost of the Doraemon stories start with protagonist Nobita Nobi, running home in tears, crying “Doraemon! Do something!” The fourth-grade boy, who lives in a subsection of Tokyo, is the weakest and least intelligent child in his class. But despite his flaws, Nobita is one of the neighborhood’s nicest and most sensitive children, and it is his desire to see justice done that drives the best Doraemon stories. It is probably why Doraemon himself and fans do not fling up their hands in defeat.RobocatAsides from its attractiveness in spirit, Doraemon has a simple storyline. One day, a strange being pops up in Nobita’s desk drawer — a round, blue cat-style robot (Doraemon), who was sent by Nobita’s descendant from the future to help prevent him from making mistakes.EducationalDoraemon and Nobita go on to become one of Asia’s most famous duos because of their hilarious yet sometimes educational experiences. As class weakling and dunce, Nobita sometimes misuses Doraemon’s gadgets and lands himself in even more trouble. This is one source of the series’ humor. However, Doraemon has another, more serious side. Often touched with a bit of educational science, moral teachings and a hint of conservationism, stories usually involve Nobita, Doraemon and their friends working together to solve a larger problem.Honekawa SuneoHonekawa is a bright yet spoiled boy. Though he always gets what he wants, he failed to get Doraemon.Nobita NobiNobita Nobi is the main character in the story. He is the least intelligent and laziest student in class. But sometimes, he can be really responsible. In the future, Nobita marries Shizuka.DoraemonDoraemon is a cat-like robot from the future, the 22nd century to be exact. His favorite food is dorayaki, a sweet-bean-paste-filled bun. He is afraid of mice and hates rats, as his ears were chewed off by rats.Shizuka MinamotoShizuka is the only female main character in the comic, and she’s a kind and forgiving person. Shizuka is liked by all the boys.Gouda TakeshiMore commonly known by his nickname Gian, Takeshi is the bully of the pack. He is tough and strong and has a terrible singing voice. He and Suneo are always picking on Nobita.
