‘Girls’ is back and strikes a chord
When a series as fresh, raw and original as HBO’s Girls comes along, there’s something that kicks in after the excitement of the first season fades: worry.It seems, however, that there are no such worries with Girls, which kicked off its second season on Jan 13.On the night of the second season’s premiere, Lena Dunham, the 26-year-old creator, writer and star of the show, won two Golden Globe awards for her work on the last series. Could there be a better way to start the new season?The new episodes so far seem more assured of themselves, adding some drama to the free-flowing comedic moments of four young, post-college women trying to find their way in life.For those who missed the first season, Girls is categorized as a comedy series, but it’s not like Sex and the City or Gossip Girls, which are both female-themed series focusing on friendships and relationships and showing off the heroines’ glamorous lifestyles. In Girls, there’s no “fairytale fantasies”, and all you see is the bleak and often humiliating reality – one of the reasons the series has become so popular.“I think the best thing you can say about a comedy is that it’s really, really funny,” Ta-Nehisi Coates, senior editor at The Atlantic, wrote in his review. “And Girls never was allowed to be just that.”The series taps into a very specific domain – educated 20-somethings in New York who are desperately trying to find a direction in their lives. In other words, a career， or at least a job that will pay the rent.They’re also well into their dating lives, yet lack the wisdom of someone in their 30s who would cut short a blind date when it’s clearly a bad fit. In their 20s, people are more likely to go with the flow, learning slower if someone is a loser or not.Another hot discussion topic of the show is Dunham’s nudity and sex scenes. However, what you see here is “one of the most democratic – and everyhuman – depictions of sex”.“Dunham isn’t really performing for you. She’s saying sex is part of life for many young people. And in a real narrative of real life, people who have sex don’t actually look like supermodels,” Coates said. “Here is how it looks like to the narrator. I kind of love that.”The depictions of hard reality and sexuality reveal why Girls has attracted so much attention and success: it strikes a chord.Dunham’s character Hannah often says things like “I think I may be the voice of my generation.” If Dunham keeps speaking out for her generation in the future, then the best days for Girls are yet to come.
