US dramas and their magic touch
Fans of US television dramas watch their favorite series for different reasons: some want to improve their English skills, others just want to kill time.No matter what type of series you prefer or why you watch them, some TV series are more than pure entertainment ― they have a certain depth. Mad Men, which returned with a sixth season recently; Monday Mornings, which just finished its first season; and Modern Family, which sweeps the awards every year, are just a few examples.Why do these shows stand out among so many similar ones? 21st Century talked to well-known film/TV critics Raymond Zhou and Bi Chenggong to give you an idea of why some shows are better than others and what we get from them.Family comedyNew, but familiarOne of the top factors that makes a good comedy, undoubtedly, is that it makes you laugh. In that case, Modern Family, the family comedy that has won the Emmy’s Outstanding Comedy Series award for three consecutive years, deserves the crown.“Everything works with Modern Family, the clever writing, the brilliant acting, and the mockumentary-style, talking directly into the camera format,” Bi Chenggong said.The fundamental reason of its success, however, is the underlying philosophy, which is inoffensive and populist. “It give us something new in very familiar terms,” Bi said. “The contradictory title of the show reminds us of this reality. It’s a progressive (modern) sitcom about conservative stuff (family).”The characters in the series are vividly particular and beautifully rendered, and they have what network executives used to call “relevance”.“Clueless dad, bookish daughter, same sex couple with kids, there is quite literally something for everyone on a show like Modern Family,” TV critic Bruce Feiler wrote in his review for The New York Times. “Viewers are able to relate to them and being comfortable with the family.”“But the main thing about them is, they’re not going anywhere,” Feiler wrote. “Restless or reconciled, they’re all held nicely in the bonds of love.”Critics also recommendShameless is another comedy that focuses on family life, but this time it’s a dysfunctional, middle-class family from Chicago’s South Side. With an alcoholic father, the other members of the family must fend for themselves physically, financially, and emotionally.“Shameless reinvents this type of show by relying on both humor and poignant sentimentality,” Bi Chenggong said. “It’s aiming for the funny bone and the heart.”
