Festival showcases youth on-screen （1）
International movie festivals usually draw crowds of film buffs, hoping to see the latest cinematic marvels to hit the big screen.This year’s Beijing International Film Festival, which runs from April 16 to 23, offers a long lineup of critically acclaimed films, many of which dissect the trials of youth. These films forgo the themes typically associated with young people – treacly romance, everlasting friendship–in favor of more complex meditations on life. Their protagonists, young as they are, confront invisible forces far greater than themselves, pressures and anxieties that stretch back for generations.The Intern, for instance, depicts a young entrepreneur striving to balance her career and family. Another anglophone film, Brooklyn, transports viewers from a small Irish town to New York City, where its heroine learns to thrive in a growing Irish immigrant community. A third English-language film, Straight Outta Compton, dramatizes the real-life ascent of a group of young rappers who take music as a platform to denounce racial injustice.There are also stories that reinterpret the meaning of family and emphasize the weight increasingly placed on young shoulders. Our Little Sister explores what happens when three young women adopt their stepsister, while the immigration drama Dheepan presents a family bound not by blood, but by necessity.Each of these films showcases what it means to be young–and all the uncertainties that entails. They’re sure to leave you inspired, as you walk out of the cinema.BrooklynDirected by John Crowley Ireland/UKBrooklyn is a film about a young Irish girl who must choose between two lovers and two countries at the same time.Adapted from Irish novelist Colm Toibin’s best selling novel, Brooklyn is set in both Ireland and US, the two countries that the protagonist Eilis (Saoirse Ronan) calls home. In her native Ireland, Eilis had few prospects, an underpaid job and a grim future in a small town. When she immigrates to the US, she feels homesick but nevertheless finds her niche. She starts to attend night school in accounting, has a promising career and finds love with a handsome Italian-American named Tony (Emory Cohen).Complications arise when Eilis returns to Ireland for her sister’s funeral. During her brief stay, she becomes more in demand than she’d ever imagined. She gets a job as an accountant and attracts the attention of a desirable local bachelor, Jim Farrell (Domhnall Gleeson).Like many young people, Eilis stands at a crossroad. The decisions she makes will ultimately determine whom she spends the rest of her life with, where she lives and what career she pursues. Eilis’ struggles in the US have transformed her from a fearful girl into a confident, self-reliant woman, and it is her newfound insight into her own character that allows her to make the fateful choice.For over a century, American cinema has explored the immigrant experience, and an array of movies have depicted the struggles of migrants coming to the US. What makes Brooklyn fresh is its small town story and empowered female protagonist who feels torn between different worlds. “In Ireland, Eilis is a daughter with a history; in America she is a woman with a future; in both she is filled with displaced longing,” Guardian movie critic Mark Kermode wrote.
