Wizard series ends
Who would have expected that a story about an 11-year-old boy wizard would turn into a multi-billion dollar business? Who would have thought that the series would still be so popular after a decade? Who could have anticipated that the child fans of the original story would loyally follow the series well into their 20s?That’s the magic of the Harry Potter series. Now, with the release of the final installment, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, fans must accept that the series is nearing its end.It’s doubtful that popular culture will see anything quite like the Harry Potter phenomenon for a long time to come. Harry Potter’s impact has unquestionably been felt in both book sales and box office receipts.But why has the series been so successful?“The genius of JK Rowling was that she grounded the wish fulfillment of a real kid with magical powers in the context of the real world. You enter the fantasy with her,” Lionel Wigram, a production executive at Warner Bros, told the Los Angeles Times.And, after 10 years, millions of fans seem to have enjoyed the ride. “It’s a fantasy that’s also very true to life,” said Deng Hao, 22, a junior student at Shandong University who’s also a Harry Potter fan. “The special effects in the movies don’t outweigh the fact that it’s deeply personal,” said Deng. “It’s really about the characters.”Jemima Owen, a 20-year-old college student in the UK, was in her final year of primary school when the first Harry Potter film was released. She recently wrote an article for The Observer from a fan’s perspective.“Eleven-year-olds picking up the first Harry Potter book now will never understand the anticipation and yearning we felt as we waited three years for the release of the next installment,” she wrote.“To say we ‘grew up’ with Harry, Ron and Hermione might be clichéd, but to me, the end of the series is like a farewell to childhood.”Ultimate battleNo longer a mere boy, Harry Potter is drawing closer to the task for which he has been preparing since the first day he stepped into Hogwarts: the ultimate battle with Voldemort.The film begins as Harry, Ron and Hermione set out on their dangerous mission to track down and destroy the secret to Voldemort’s immortality–the Horcruxes. Without the guidance of their professors, the three friends must rely on one another more than ever.
