Flood of fiction which paints a grim future
The book (and movie) of The Hunger Games are what’s called dystopian fiction. A story set, usually in the future, in a society where conditions are dreadful.Think of the word utopia: an idealized place or state where everything is perfect.Well, dystopia is the direct opposite: a society in which life is nasty, short and brutish.Recently there has been a flood of modern dystopian fiction for children and young adults. Maximum Ride (a genetic experiment on human-bird hybrids) was by James Patterson and Divergent (a future society divided into five factions, and teens must choose which one to devote themselves to) was written by Veronica Roth.Why are these grim books so popular? Lucy Mangan writes a blog for the Guardian newspaper’s website.She said: “These stories present worlds full of cowed populations, tyrannical governments, post-nuclear, devastated, war-torn landscapes, corrupt elites, weaponized viruses and other associated horrors that ask how we would function in extreme situations, and test what it means to be human.”Mangan suggests that dystopian fiction is popular because it speaks of the experience of being a teenager today, such as facing a school bully, peer pressures or even campus violence, albeit in an extreme version.She goes on: “Teenagers live with a wide and perpetual unease. Apocalyptic but coherent, resolvable narratives are handbooks for mental survival.”Paulo Bacigalupi, an award winning novelist for young adults, writes in the opinion pages of The New York Times website: “I suspect that young adults crave stories of broken futures because they themselves are uneasily aware that their world is falling apart.”The planet we inhabit suffers a loss of biodiversity, the depletion of cheap and easily accessible energy and the hazards of global warming. “Our children will inherit a world significantly depleted and damaged in comparison to the one our parents handed down to us,” warns Bacigalupi.You can find classic examples of dystopian fiction in comics, short stories, novels, cartoons and movies. In the American comic book story Batman: the Dark Knight Returns (later filmed), the caped crusader returns to a dystopian Gotham City populated by fearful citizens and run by corrupt politicians and gangsters. The movie franchise Mad Max, which made Mel Gibson famous, is set in a dystopian Australia gripped by energy starvation. In a world where man’s precious resource, petroleum, is depleted after an oil war, civilization is in meltdown. There is no law and order and motorcycle gangs terrorize the country.Dystopian novels also reveal teenagers’ fear about entering the adult world, which involves brutal competition.The spectacle of young people being hunted to the death in The Hunger Games as a form of public entertainment is barbaric.But think of the Roman empire. Bloodthirsty crowds watched captured prisoners, slaves, and gladiators fight to the death in the Coliseum in Rome and in amphitheaters in cities throughout the empire.The only difference is The Hunger Games are for a TV audience.
