Will 'Pacific Rim Uprising' succeed in China?
The world is at risk again in Pacific Rim Uprising, the sequel to Guillermo del Toro’s battle for the planet actioner Pacific Rim (2013). Directed by Steven S DeKnight, this new instalment is a tech tag-team bout that takes the robot-monsters’ fight from Los Angeles to Sydney, Tokyo and Siberia, with lots of infrastructure to rebuild in its wake.The story is set some ten years after the events of the first Pacific Rim. John Boyega plays Jake, the son of the first film’s hero, played by Idris Elba. Having abandoned his military service to pursue a more lucrative career scavenging Jaegar parts, Jake is summoned back into action by his sister Mako Mori (Rinko Kikuchi). Rejoining the Pan Pacific Defense Corps, or PPDC, Jake is soon fighting alongside Lambert (Scott Eastwood), his friend and rival pilot; Jules (Adria Arjona), whose romantic affections both men vie for; and Amara (Cailee Spaeny), a spunky teenage hacker who’s built her own Jaeger from parts left over from the last cataclysmic battle.A major plot element involves a Chinese company developing a new breed of unmanned Jaegar corps — a business plan that, needless to say, doesn’t sit well with the pilots. The Cadets are soon forced into apocalyptic combat with both the rogue Jaegars and the newly returned Kaiju.A commendably diverse cast helped "Pacific Rim" find huge success outside the US, particularly in China. Such casting continues, with more main and supporting roles for Japanese, Chinese and Latin American actors, placing "Uprising" alongside "A Wrinkle in Time", "Annihilation" and "Black Panther".But "Pacific Rim Uprising" goes further than usual by having a whopping seven Chinese actors on board and filming several of its scenes in the coastal resort city of Qingdao, in east China’s Shandong Province.One of the actors is "Kong: Skull Island" actress Jing Tian, who also took on a leading role in Zhang Yimou’s "Great Wall". She plays Shao Liwen, the highly intelligent CEO of an international group, who the director DeKnight described as "extremely smart, brilliant, not very good with people - really a Chinese tech billionaire."However, not all the Chinese elements work and the Chinese audiences’ reactions are complicated. The film got only 5.8 points out of 10 on local movie platform douban.com, while on online ticketing platform Taopiaopiao, the viewer’s rating stands at 7.8 and nearly 360,000 people added the film to their to-see list.But the box office is a different story. Box Office Mojo reported that "Pacific Rim Uprising" grossed a solid 2.35-million US dollars from screenings late on Thursday night. It is expected to top "Black Panther" at the weekend box office, ending its five-weekend streak at No. 1.
