Delicious sips to keep you warm
Facing a chilly winter, a lot of energy is needed to fight the cold. A hot drink will warm the body and please the taste buds at the same time. People across the world know this secret and have created various drinks to accompany them through the long winters.Here, we pick a few typical and popular winter drinks, telling the stories behind them and offering recipes so you can have a taste yourself.Sungnyung (Korea)Sungnyung is a Korean tisane made from boiled scorched rice. This traditional tea can be traced back to the Goryeo period (918 to 1392). People pour hot water over the parched layer of rice on the bottom of the pot. Sometimes they burn it deliberately, roasting rice in a dry pan until it browns and smells nutty, and then brewing it with hot water for about 10 minutes. Its taste is reminiscent of toast, and makes for a refreshing non-caffeinated end to a meal.Ingredients:Three cups of cooked rice, warm waterDirections:Preheat the oven.Spread the rice on the baking sheet.Put the baking sheet in the oven and toast the rice until it starts turning brown.Take the rice and let it steep in a cup of hot water for a few minutes.Mulled wine with cranberries (Europe)Mulled wine is a lovely drink for the winter holiday season, especially around Christmas.Warming a sachet of fragrant mulling spices in some cider or wine will take you to beverage heaven. Just the smell of the mixture simmering on the stove will bring an instant holiday atmosphere to the home. Wine was first recorded as a spiced, hot beverage in the first century. Mulled wine with cranberries has a sweet, spicy and comforting taste. The cranberry juice gives it a nice tangy flavor. It’s recognized as the best drink to serve guests as they come in from the cold.Ingredients:Cranberry juice, sugar, cinnamon sticks, star anise, red wine, fresh cranberriesDirections:Combine the cranberry juice, sugar, cinnamon sticks and star anise in a large saucepan. Simmer for 15 minutes.Stir in the wine and cranberries and simmer again. Serve warm.Hot cocoa with toasted marshmallows (worldwide)Created by the Mayas around 2,000 years ago, chocolate became popular as a beverage in Europe after being introduced from Mexico and has undergone multiple changes since then.Today, hot chocolate is consumed throughout the world and comes in multiple variations including the very thick “cioccolata densa” served in Italy, and the thinner hot cocoa that is typically consumed in the US.Studies show that hot cocoa can reduce the risk of heart disease and has a positive effect on arterial health. Adding malted milk powder and toasted marshmallows creates a soft and cozy vibe.Ingredients:Hot cocoa mix, marshmallows, malted milk powderDirections:Heat up the oven and place the marshmallows on a baking sheet until golden, about 30 seconds.Mix the cocoa with the malted milk powder.Add the toasted marshmallows.Ponche (Mexico)Ponche is a warm tropical-fruit punch, traditionally enjoyed in Mexico during Christmas time.The base of Mexican ponche consists of piloncillo, a dark brown unrefined cane sugar, mixed with water and cinnamon sticks. Adding guavas and tejocotes, orange-like fruits with an apple-pear taste, is a must. The tejocote’s soft flesh turns almost creamy while soaking in the ponche. Guavas add the right amount of tang and citrusy perfume.It’s also possible to add other winter fruits, like apples, oranges, raisins or walnuts.Ingredients:配料：Directions:Boil the tejocotes and cinnamon sticks in water until the tejocotes are soft.Remove the fruit from the pot, let it cool and then peel the skin off. Slice the tejocotes and remove the seeds.Place the tejocotes back into the pot of cinnamon-water and add the remaining ingredients. Simmer the mixture for at least 30 minutes.To serve the ponche, remove the cinnamon sticks and ladle it directly into mugs, making sure to include the chunks of cooked fruit.
