War only children can win
Hollywood adaptations of best-selling sci-fi novels are no longer reason enough to attract moviegoers. But Ender’s Game, which is an adaptation of the 1985 novel of the same title, is a bit different.From US author Orson Scott Card’s refusal to sign the film deal for years, to the film’s pre-release controversy thanks to Card’s anti-gay views, there are plenty of reasons to watch it. At least you should be curious about what all the fuss is about.Generally, it’s a polished sci-fi epic with stunning visual effects that will appeal to mainstream audiences. While it fails to reach the height it aspires to —namely the novel’s moral complexity — it’s quite an entertaining experience with some timely issues on its mind.Asa Butterfield plays the 12-year-old Ender Wiggin, a student soldier in a military facility that is training children to fight the Formics. The Formics are the alien species that attacked Earth half a century prior to the film’s story, killing millions before being driven back to their home planet.Why children? As the film explains, because of their youth, these military prodigies can absorb complex battle information and develop attack strategies more quickly and easily than adults — the same skill that makes them so good at video games.And as the title suggests, gaming is critical to the story and its visuals.For example, several scenes feature a high-tech version of laser tag played in a weightless arena, while others show Ender playing a video game on an iPad-like device that he controls with his mind.The film’s touch of current issues becomes evident in Ender’s attempt to end all future battles, and when he is confronted by bullies. It talks about everything from the morality of using children in battle to the consequences of violent video games. But they’re only fleetingly addressed, without becoming a large conversation.Another shortfall is the film’s character development. In the film, everything seems too easy for Ender. While to some extent that’s the point because he’s supposed to be a military genius, it makes him hard to relate to as a character.Certainly, the film is much better than I expected, given all the buzz beforehand. If you want an out-of-this-world experience before Spring Festival, Ender’s Game is an excellent choice.
