Competition of voices
It’s been a few years since this much attention was paid to China’s TV music talent shows. But this summer, a decade after these type of shows appeared on Chinese television, it’s a lively scene again, filled with different programs. And certainly, quite a number of contestants are getting into the public eye.Here, we take a few contestants from the three most popular music talent shows and discover what makes them special. Who knows, some of them may become superstars in the future.The Voice of ChinaAfter its first season, word of mouth was that The Voice of China is a singing competition that really focuses on music. And so far it’s been the same this year. The debut episode, which aired on the evening of July 12, already featured some impressive voices.Yao Beina, 31, HubeiAs a signed singer with Huayi Brothers, Yao has sung several theme songs for several TV series, most notably The Legend of Zhen Huan.On the stage, wearing a T-shirt and jeans and singing a song that, according to her, she truly likes, Yao showed audience members a different side of herself. She has a pretty face and a powerful voice, but how far can she go? Yao may need to prepare for rumors and negativity at first.Zhu Ke, 41, ShanghaiThe single father is certainly a good performer. The love he expressed for his deceased wife in a well-chosen song moved many viewers to tears. It was a sentimental touch, but let’s hope the show producers know how to avoid emotionally bullying the audience.Meanwhile, we can look forward to hearing more from Zhu, because for a man with so much life experience, any song he sings will be much more than just a song.Super BoyFrom its judges to the whole packaging and production, Super Boy is undoubtedly one of the most entertaining talent shows to watch. Fortunately, it still has some good singers we can look forward to. The following two, who have all gained instant fame on the Internet after appearing on the show, write and sing their own music, but their styles vary.Zuo Li, 25, HunanZuo’s song Miss Dong not only got him through the blind audition, it also made him the most romantic contestant as the song is dedicated to his beloved girlfriend. In the competition for the top 20 positions, he sang another love song for his girlfriend and, once again, made it to the next round. Compared to Hua Chenyu’s rhapsody, Zuo’s music is more down-to-earth, honest and sweet, but his love for his girlfriend may push him into the cliche trap.Jia Shengqiang, 24, SichuanWith a voice like comedian Stephen Chow and lyrics praising his older sister, to many, Jia is a funny character. But his memorable image is part of what makes Jia special. Combined with his musical skills, in particular his falsetto, which has a touch of Kunqu opera in it, Jia is the most distinctive contestant on Super Boy.Chinese IdolOn July 14, Chinese Idol elected its 12 finalists and yin beat yang hands down. The shows’ female contestants, including the two below, have not only shown their outstanding vocal skills, but also their determination to win the title of “China’s dream voice”.Xu Mingming, 19, HenanThanks to Xu, you may be addicted to I’m Eating Fried Chicken at People’s Square, a song originally written by an Internet singer. But Xu doesn’t need to sing such special songs to win over the hearts of audience members. With her recognizable voice — deep, soulful and slightly hoarse — any song sounds like her own when she sings it.Yangjima, 27, TibetThe Tibetan contestant has been dubbed “goddess” for her silky-long hair and ethereal voice. On July 14, she was voted directly into the 12 finalists without even performing. So far, her performances have been somewhat predictable as she always sings the same kind of songs. Let’s hope she can make some changes and, better yet, bring us a few surprises.
