Nerds take the command
Procedural crime dramas are CBS’s bread and butter. The network is responsible for developing long-running series like Naval Criminal Investigative Service, Crime Scene Investigation and Criminal Minds. With Scorpion, CBS assembles yet another wisecracking, fast-talking team and charges them with taking on the world’s most clever cyber criminals. The catch this time is our heroes are emotionally stunted geniuses. The end result is a product that’s unintentionally hilarious.Over a tense dinner date we’re introduced to Walter O’Brien (Elyes Gabel), whose stratospheric IQ comes at the expense of a sense of empathy. O’Brien, along with three of his similarly gifted buddies and a random waitress, is recruited to solve the crimes the rest of Homeland Security is apparently too dumb to crack. The team uses their smarts to stop plane crashes, track down a bioterrorist, and thwart bombings.Sound ridiculous? Well, it is. But the show is so absurd, so blissfully committed in its quest to make tired ideas seem new, that it manages to be an entertaining watch in a tongue-in-cheek sort of way.You’ve seen this show, in parts, before. Scorpion lifts the most memorable elements from better television you’ve already watched and smashes them all together. O’Brien, our calculating protagonist, is a softened tech-savvy offshoot of Gregory House (from House). He’s Mark Zuckerberg with a badge. His accomplices? They’re basically reworked versions of the characters from The Big Bang Theory. On a whim, the team also employs “normal” waitress Paige Dineen (Katharine McPhee). Dineen provides formulaic emotional guidance to the team, a romantic foil for O’Brien, and occasional motherly reminders that the team can’t function if they don’t eat lunch. To top it all off, the story is slathered in a healthy dose of technical nonsense in typical CBS crime drama fashion.Scorpion isn’t the most well written show around. Its characters are stock, its dialogue is mechanical, and its story is hard to believe. Most shows wouldn’t hold up in the face of such crippling shortcomings, but by not taking itself too seriously, Scorpion manages to be entertaining despite obvious flaws.
