Diva domination
She disappeared through and through, evaporating without a trace. But when UK singer Adele Adkins, 27, announced her grand comeback, she sent the music world into a tizzy.As soon as her much-anticipated album 25 came out on Nov 20, it shattered sales records. It shot past her previous blockbuster album, 21, to become one of the best-selling records of all time.According to Billboard, 25 sold in excess of 900,000 copies via Apple’s music service within the first day of its release. Adele dethroned her idol, the American singer Beyoncé, to become the artist with the fastest selling album in iTunes history. It’s already this year’s top selling album in the US after only having been on sale for three days.With accolades piling up, there seem to be few records Adele hasn’t broken yet.Adele defines 25 as a “make-up album”. In a statement on her official social media accounts, she hinted that this album is about exploring self-acceptance and adulthood. “I’m making up with myself. Making up for lost time. Making up with everything I ever did and never did,” she wrote.During her silent years, she finally let go of the tough breakup that gave her the inspiration for her sophomore album, 21. She has since established a stable relationship with the charity entrepreneur Simon Konecki and gave birth to a baby boy.“Being in such an amazing relationship with someone that’s so there for me and so loyal and is really part of my core now, that’s what made me write about everything I’ve ever done, because I’ve got his love,” she said to 60 Minutes Australia.That’s what we hear in 25: a mature and introspective Adele with her invariably heart-grabbing voice. She sends her love to her child in the song Remedy, shares her relationship fears in the single Water Under the Bridge and reveals her anxiety about dealing with fame in Million Years Ago. The album showcases the tear-jerking ballads you’ve come to expect from Adele, as well as some surprising, livelier material.Having earned 10 Grammy awards for only two studio albums, Adele had previously reached impossible heights in contemporary music. However, her newest album proves that she can not only meet her audience’s high expectations, but that she can exceed them.
