Most eligible royal bachelors
1.	Prince Harry: Now that Prince William is off the market, his little brother Prince Harry is looking more handsome than ever. Third in line to the throne, Harry is now Britain’s number one most eligible royal bachelor. A rebellious bad boy who loves adventure, the 26-year-old prince has gotten in trouble in the past with substance abuse, but has also served in Afghanistan with the British military and recently went on a grand expedition to the North Pole. But you better act quickly, there’s already competition: Harry’s on-again, off-again girlfriend, Chelsy Davy.2.	Prince Azim of Brunei: Prince Azim of Brunei is known as a billionaire playboy with friends in high places -- including Hollywood. The eldest child of Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, Azim’s over-the-top lavish parties have attracted A-list celebrities such as Janet Jackson, Scarlett Johansson and Mariah Carey. The 2009 bash for his 26th birthday in London was dubbed "Party of the Year." A local florist told The Telegraph the prince spent over $100,000 on 6,000 white roses for the event, a claim that the Brunei Royal family disputed. It has been estimated that his wealth is somewhere around $22 billion. 3.	Prince Andrew :If you’re looking for an older man, Duke of York, might be a perfect fit for you. At 51, Andrew is an experienced helicopter pilot who fought in the Falklands War. He is father to princesses Beatrice and Eugenie, and he can be your "in" into the British Royal family. The second son of Queen Elizabeth II and brother to Prince Charles, Andrew is a world traveler and represents the United Kingdom at the World Economic Forum. A lively divorcee (he and Sarah "Fergie" Ferguson, Duchess of York, divorced in 1996), Andrew is a top-notch golfer. 4 Prince Joachim :Prince Joachim of Belgium might not have as impressive a resume as his big brother Amedeo, or be quite ready to settle down -- he’s only 19 -- but Joachim is also in line to the Belgian throne. Ninth, in fact. He is college educated and currently enlisted in voluntary army training in Belgium.5 Even though Prince Wenzeslaus of Liechtenstein has a name that’s almost longer than his kingdom, this eligible royal is quite a catch. The 36-year-old is a billionaire whose chiseled features earned him a spot on Forbes’ list of "World’s Hottest Young Royals." Liechtenstein is the smallest yet the richest German-speaking country in the world and the only country to lie entirely within the Alps. Prince Wenzeslaus is known for dating various supermodels, including Adriana Lima of Victoria’s Secret.6 Prince Andrea Casiraghi of Monaco is the one you want to bring home to Mom and Dad. The grandson of Princess Grace Kelly, the 26-year-old prince spent eight months teaching children in Africa. Andrea also has a master’s degree in international affairs from The New School in New York, and had an internship at the Qatari Embassy to France. Did we mention he was number 10 on Forbes’ "20 Hottest Young Royals" in 2008?7. Prince Pierre Casiraghi of Monaco is far different than his older brother Prince Andrea, but also is the life of the party. So much, in fact, that it was speculated that the 23-year-old’s constant partying led him to not graduate from Bocconi University in Milan, where he was studying economics.
