Onscreen talent
One month ago, eyebrows were raised when the Golden Horse Awards honored director Feng Xiaogang as the year’s best leading actor. How could a man better known behind the camera beat full-time actors for the award?But Feng’s critics have been silenced, as the movie Mr. Six (《老炮儿》) completes its national press tour and limited release run. The reviews are in: never has a person been better matched to a role than Feng has been.The movie officially hit cinemas nationwide on Dec 24. To some extent, Feng portrays himself in the film. He depicts Zhang Xuejun, a tenacious but grizzled gangster known by the moniker Mr Six, who must reluctantly accept his fading influence. Even so, Zhang persists in sticking to his own beliefs and values.As soon as director Guan Hu finished writing the script for the movie, he knew that Feng was the only person who could embody the lead role. “No one else can play Mr Six. He should be Mr Six,” Guan said while introducing the film to audiences in Wuhan.While Feng may be winning accolades for his onscreen performance, his behind-the-scenes work has been less than stellar in recent years. In fact, Feng seems to be going through a career crisis. His directorial productions Back to 1942 (《一九四二》，2011) and Personal Tailor (《私人定制》，2013) were mediocre compared to his previous hits. Like his character in Mr. Six, Feng is determined to stop compromising and just do what he really likes during the rest of his life.After reading Guan’s screenplay, Feng decided to take the role straightaway. He immediately saw eye-to-eye with the lead character.Ex-gangster Zhang scolds a thief, teaches a lesson to impolite young people and strikes back at a city inspector who beat up a pancake seller. That’s just what Feng would do in his real life: He would stand up for what goes against his own code of ethics, and he doesn’t give a damn about other people’s judgments.Feng’s convincing and deeply-felt performance elevates the entire production. Even his costars seem to shine a little bit brighter in Feng’s presence. In one scene, Zhang and his son grab a drink in a small restaurant. They quarrel before finally opening their hearts to each other. We see young actor Li Yifeng give his best performance to date under the guidance of Feng.Chinese actor-director Jiang Wen has once said that Feng should have been an actor instead of a director. One thing is for sure: Mr. Six certainly proves that Feng has the chops for the job.
