Our top Emmy trophy-takers
This year’s Primetime Emmy Awards, held on Sept 19, was a “two-horse race” between The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story and Game of Thrones (2011-). The two shows popped up frequently throughout the event, but Game of Thrones once again dominated the evening by winning 11 Emmys, including outstanding drama series for the second straight year. People v. O.J. Simpson also took home five trophies.But apart from the night’s two champions, which have been in the spotlight for quite some time, there are other less-talked-about series whose excellence was still acknowledged by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. Here are two of our favorites:Veep (2012-), HBOIf you are into political dramas, Veep might be a great alternative to House of Cards (2013-).The story is set in the office of Selina Meyer, fictional Vice President of the US. It follows her and her team in their attempt to make Meyer the president. “Veep” is an informal way to say “vice president”, since Meyer often feels powerless and *disregarded in her position.The biggest difference between Veep and House of Cards is probably that Veep is a comedy. Yet, this doesn’t at all compromise its *satire and the thought-provoking effect of the world of politics. “Quiet hilarity” is what The Guardian’s movie reviewer Tyler Collins describes how he feels about the show.“For the average viewer, [Veep] might seem *inane or just outright ridiculous. However, everything happens in a vacuum in this show, and there’s rich *precedent for every joke told at the expense of somebody else,” Collins wrote. “[It] provides viewers with layers of *subtext, shifting character dynamics, and a quiet hilarity carefully hidden under all the tense noise.”With such depth, Veep picked up the Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series, for the second year running, defeating popular shows like Modern Family (2009-) and Silicon Valley (2014-). Its lead actress, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, who plays the “Veep”, also won the award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a comedy, for the fifth year in a row.Orphan Black (2013-),BBC AmericaAt first sight, Orphan Black is just another show about clones, which is certainly not a new concept. It was the performance – or more appropriately, performances – of its leading actress, Tatiana Maslany, that brought this show to life.Maslany plays six different clones of the same person in season one alone. There’s street-smart Sarah, soccer mom Alison, microbiology student Cosima, *assassin Helena, and more – each of the characters easily identifiable with different accents, attitude and body language.It’s hard enough to portray one role successfully in a show, but Maslany accomplished that several times. This is why she won an Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actress in a drama. “It’s the sort of performance that will never become *commonplace,” wrote movie reviewer Phelim O’Neill on The Guardian.As you keep watching, you’ll find that the plotline of Orphan Black also turns out to be more thrilling than it was given credit for. The story begins when Sarah sees a woman, who appears to be her *doppelganger, commit suicide. It later leads to Sarah’s discovery that she’s actually a clone. Together with her many “sister” clones, they are the products of a scientific movement and are in great danger of being hunted down and killed.“By the end of the first season, Orphan Black was not simply a *quirky showcase for a seriously talented actress, it was a multi-faceted, only semi-science-fiction exploration of identity, mortality, religion and science. Liberally sprinkled with guns and *one-liners,” wrote television critic Mary McNamara on Los Angeles Times.
