Spirit of Hong Kong
The cute but clumsy pink piglet, McDull, just might be the most contagious thing this summer. Hong Kong’s favorite homegrown comic character is returning in his latest adventure, McDull Kungfu Ding Dong Ding, on July 24.The series of McDull films actually began in 2001 with the film My Life as McDull. He was a dim-witted child who had many dreams, and, even when he lost one he got new ones.This latest film, following in that seriously funny tradition, has McDull studying taijiquan to prepare for an international kindergarten martial arts tournament. While the audience laugh their heads off, they also can’t help getting a bit tearful over the unsophisticated but upbeat piggy.This film is not set amidst the typical crowded skyscrapers and street bulletins of Hong Kong, but features the Wudang temple and Three Gorges Dam instead.The story takes place during summer vacation: Some of McDull’s classmates go off to New Zealand to a ski resort, some study Mandarin at Peking University, and others travel to Oxford to study English. McDull has to go to Wudang Mountain to study taijiquan. With no air conditioner,  or TV programs he sheds a few tears by himself. Can the underdog cope?Just like before, his mother Ms Mak has great hopes for Mcdull in his martial arts studies. But, at Wudang, McDull apparently gets more fun out of hanging out with his new friends. The piglet even cooks instant noodles in an alchemy stove. Of course, he can’t escape being badly punished for that bit of mischief. Things keep changing until he discovers a big secret, which becomes his motive for learning. One message the film conveys is that a great project takes a long time to complete and we have to learn to wait for things naturally. "McDull represents the spirit that the people of Hong Kong are beginning to lose. People are putting too much emphasis on efficiency and immediate results," said the McDull creator Brian Tse. "But, Mcdull is slow and patient, and not afraid of repeated failures."The cartoonist Alice Mak, Tse’s wife, added: "He has a heart of gold and you’re always afraid that he’s too simple-minded or honest to survive in this brutal world. But I wouldn’t want him to ever grow up in the cartoons. In fact, we all have part of the not-so-perfect McDull in our bodies."
