Asian Games, a hard sell
FANG Zhanjun, a 19-year-old English major at South China Agricultural University, stared down at her feet when some of her classmates boldly asked the teacher whether they would get paid for volunteering for the Asian Games. "The whole class burst out laughing, but I felt really ashamed," said Fang. "And I don’t think this idea is uncommon among young people in this city."She was among the first group of volunteers for the 16th Asian Games, which will be held in Guangzhou in November 2010.Fang is a veteran volunteer: she was at the Capital Gymnasium during the Beijing Olympics last summer. She had been impressed by a male volunteer from Dalian who told her that he was quitting his job to become an usher at the gymnasium."It touched me a lot. And I wanted to bring this spirit of dedication to Guangzhou," said Fang.The southern coastal city of Guangzhou spearheaded China’s market economic reform. But it has received unfavorable comments in another area - it is criticized for its lack of altruistic awareness. The Cantonese accent also seems strange to outsiders. So local authorities and young people see the Games and volunteering as important ways to bolster the city’s image.According to the Guangzhou Asian Games Organizing Committee (GAGOC), 131,512 people had applied for volunteer positions by the end of June. However, when that figure is compared with the 200,000 applicants that the 2010 World Exposition in Shanghai attracted in 20 days, it doesn’t seem so glamorous."We hope to find 560,000 volunteers for the Games by July of next year so that more young people can actively take part," explained Lin Yanfen, deputy director of GAGOC’s volunteer section."The Asian Games aren’t as famous as the Olympics and the promotion wasn’t sufficient, so not many people knew that it would be held in Guangzhou next year," said Lin. "What is more, it wasn’t easy to excite the enthusiasm of young people in the surrounding area."The language barrier has discouraged students from other provinces from coming to help. When the organizing committee tried to promote the event at Liaoning University last month, some students spoke about their worries. "My friends and I were interested in volunteering in Guangzhou, but we were afraid that we wouldn’t do a very good job because we don’t speak Cantonese," said Zhang Huiru, 19, a Liaoning senior.Meanwhile, for young people in Guangdong, the problem has been more practical. "When we went looking for volunteers on the street, some asked whether we offered transportation and meal subsidies, or they wanted to know what they would get in exchange for volunteering," commented Lin.To attract local young people who’ve been affected by Hong Kong and Taiwan pop culture, the organizing committee asked celebrities like Chiling Lin and Andy Lau to help out.It also started a "volunteer credit" system to give youngsters a sense of fulfillment. Under this system, Asian Games volunteers will receive a score from one to five, depending on the number of hours they serve. A high score can lead to various awards."We took this event as a chance to change the indifferent image of Guangzhou," said Lin. "We even tried to promote Mandarin to make the city seem friendlier. Even if the transition was a little bit hard, people can feel a change in daily life."Xiao Sha, 19, a junior at Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, who had already volunteered for the Asian Games media center, enjoys the tangible change in the environment."In the past, when I chatted with friends in Putonghua in a canteen, people might stare at us like we had come from another planet, but now when you go to some restaurants, waitresses will greet you in Putonghua," said Xiao, who’s from Shanxi. "And in the subway, the information is in Putonghua, which is really convenient for me."
