Rock steady
It’s been just three years since UK singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran broke through into the pop world with his debut single The A Team. But now, he’s already one of the leading figures in the British music industry.The 23-year-old artist has performed at the Victoria’s Fashion Show, on X Factor and on The Voice’s finale, and toured with top singers including his close friend Taylor Swift. He was named most streamed artist globally on Spotify in 2014 and won Best British Artist at the BBC Music Awards. X, his second studio album, which was released in June, conquered the UK music charts and was nominated for the 57th Grammy Awards’ Album of the Year.Who would believe this was the same red-haired British boy who bought a plane ticket from England to Los Angeles in April 2010, with just one date in his diary – playing guitar at a poetry night?Always showing up in baggy jeans, a T-shirt and a hoodie, with no fancy stage gear, what makes this red-haired nice guy stand out is his musicianship, said Financial Times. His songs are simple but emotional, with catchy tunes and touching lyrics inspired by real life.During his early days in London, at one point, he slept on the streets outside Buckingham Palace, which inspired his song Homeless. Weeks before his grandfather passed away, Ed wrote Afire Love with the heartbreaking words, “And if you fell to your death today, I hope that heaven is your resting place.”Sheeran went to an ordinary school in Suffolk, England. He learned to play guitar at a young age and began to write songs at around 12. The boy’s earliest stage was his school’s concerts. At 16, Sheeran made the decision of a lifetime, to drop out of school and move to London to pursue his music career. He slept on friends’ sofas to save money to record his songs and gigged constantly for three years.In early 2011, the young artist released his first EP No. 5Collaborations Project, which prompted a surge in his popularity on iTunes and brought him the attention of Elton John. Soon he signed to Asylum Records and his debut album + went quintuple platinum in the UK.He doesn’t try to be anything but himself – an average boy next door. Sheeran explains his philosophy to The Independent as “being selfish”. “Why bother to please everyone? Please yourself. The rest will follow.”
