Planetary defenders
Marvel took a tremendous gamble in producing Guardians of the Galaxy. Where other Marvel film franchises tend to bank on reliable, star superheroes like Spiderman and Iron Man, Guardians of the Galaxy does not. The movie takes a handful of misfits from the lesser-known regions of the Marvel Comics universe, puts them together, and asks them to carry a story for the length of an entire movie.Well, it seems the gamble paid off. Guardians has grossed over $653 million (about 4 billion yuan) at box offices worldwide, and it’s the highest grossing film of the year in the US. With that kind of money on the table, Marvel has already OK’d the production of a sequel (to be released in 2017) and a new animated television series.Guardians tells the story of Star-Lord (Chris Pratt), Gamora (Zoe Saldana), Rocket (Bradley Cooper), Groot (Vin Diesel) and Drax (Dave Batista) as they try to keep a powerful stone from falling into the hands of Ronan, a supervillain who seeks to use the rock to destroy entire planets. The crew initially meets in prison, where they’ve all been arrested by The Nova Corps. From there, the story unwinds through a series of stunning interplanetary action sequences and well-timed meta-jokes.For someone who has paid casual attention to comic-inspired movies for all of their life, I must shamefully admit I had some trouble following the story. The cast of characters is Marvel’s most interesting yet, but it’s also the least familiar.Guardians introduces quite a few characters never before seen on film, and each has a backstory only the dedicated comic book fan could be expected to know offhand. This makes each character’s individual motivations and origins hazy.That said, I was quite impressed with Guardians. This is the tenth installment in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and the continued success of Marvel movies owes to their rich storytelling heritage. The foundations for these characters and films were laid decades ago, and they’ve been fortified and fleshed out over time. Guardians of the Galaxy takes B-list heroes and gives them a well-deserved chance to shine alongside their more popular super-powered peers.
