Stephen Chow goes West
If the Journey to the West rerun on TV during the Spring Festival holiday caused you a bit of childhood nostalgia, you’d better be prepared before watching Stephen Chow’s creative new take on the classic tale. Because what you’re going to get is a dark, yet ridiculously funny twist on the original story. In other words, a typical Chow film.Written, directed and produced by Chow, Journey to the West: Conquering the Demons is a delirious blend of monster movie, romantic comedy and martial arts fantasy.Five years since his last movie CJ7, the Hong Kong comic genius is finally back. While Chow doesn’t make an appearance in the movie himself, his signature style is all over it. Think over-the-top slapstick humor that breaks the ice in some high-tension scenes.Unlike Chow’s other movies, which always feature bratty anti-heroes battling against their underdog status, the protagonist of the movie, surprisingly, isn’t the Monkey King, whose comic image is unveiled in the movie’s final showdown. Instead, it’s a young Xuanzang before he sets out on his voyage to the West.Played by Wen Zhang, the character doesn’t have the larger-than-life personality that typically defines Chow’s leading roles. As a demon-hunter with almost no kung fu skills, Xuanzang is guided only by a firm belief in the inherent goodness of every evil. He strives to awaken the demons’ sense of innocence by singing from his treasured book of 300 Nursery Rhymes.With the help of Miss Duan (Shu Qi), a beautiful yet fierce fellow demon-hunter who falls hopelessly in love with him, Xuanzang consecutively conquers the three demons that eventually become his disciples.Storywise, the film generally feels like a prequel to Journey to the West, but as Chow puts it, it’s “a prequel but not necessarily a prequel”.The film stands on its own with a very clear point. In a reference to Chow’s previous work based on the story — the A Chinese Odyssey series, Xuanzang becomes a Buddhist monk and finally learns of the significance of greater love through his own experience of love.Of course, the solid plot, the talented actors and the immediate laughs are enough to ask from a trip to the cinema. But if you can appreciate the movie’s higher meaning, you get an extra bonus.
