Top 10 entertainment events in 2010
Showbiz will never stop generating buzz as much as people will never stop gossiping. It may be a rumor, accident or scandal to hit the headlines, but when it involves a celebrity it soon becomes a hot topic. Here, we look back at the top 10 entertainment sensations in China in 2010.1. Lightening marriageThe “lightening marriage” of Taiwan actress Barbie Hsu, 34, to her beau and restaurant heir Wang Xiaofei, 29, is a living example of “love at the first sight”, which dominated newspaper headlines, forums and micro blogs. Just 49 days after their first date the couple registered their marriage in Beijing on November 16. It was billed as romantic fairytale-meets-prank by various members of the public. The curiosity and controversy of their “true love” along with overcoming an age gap reflected the nation’s current mood on marriage. Although many online surveys seem pessimistic about their marriage, only time will truly tell.2. Horrific explosionA horrific explosion on the set of I Have A Date With Spring, in Shanghai, saw Selina Jen of the girl group S.H.E. and actor Yu Haoming suffer extensive burns. This tragic accident would be a turning point for the two promising young stars. Currently both of them are receiving medical therapy, which will reportedly take two years for them to fully recover. The accident was said to have been due to aged explosives, although an investigation is ongoing. Awareness about actors’ safety was greatly raised after this harsh lesson.3. Deadly plastic surgeryPursuing external beauty through medical procedures is painstaking or in some cases deadly. Wang Bei, once a contestant in the popular talent show Super Girl, died on Nov 15 after a complication with anesthetic during plastic surgery. To improve her pop-star looks, Wang risked her life in this hazardous surgery and lost it. Her tragic death served as a wake-up call for the millions who crave artificial beauty in an often-unregulated environment.4. "Donation Gate"Philanthropy has proved to be rewarding and risky for some. Zhang Ziyi was first accused of donating only part of the claimed 1 million yuan to victims of the earthquake in Sichuan in 2008. It was later revealed that she had not raised anywhere close to this amount at the charity party she held in Cannes for the purpose. In an exclusive interview with China Daily, Zhang vehemently denied accusations that she committed fraud in the name of charity, but admitted to inexperience when organizing a donation5. Secret marriage unveiledIn order to maintain their much-acclaimed image, celebrities tend to purposely veil their privacy. For most it is understandable, but for one former couple, it got on the public’s nerves. At a press briefing on March 27, Hong Kong actress Charlene Choi and singer Ronald Cheng announced their divorce putting their four-year marriage to an end, which immediately hit the headlines and sparked widespread astonishment. The public was kept in the dark about their secret marriage, which even escaped the sharp radar of the paparazzi. This jaw-dropping news also provoked a credit crisis for Charlene who always impressed the public with her very girly image.To be continued
