Bad movies gather a devoted following
Have you ever been attracted to a bad movie?Well, the question may sound silly, but in truth, you might have. Because bad movies can sometimes be more entertaining.According to a BBC article that discusses bad movies, there are two types of bad movie: boring films with dreary scripts and lame acting, or outlandish, offensive bombs with exaggerating performances, awful jokes and unbelievable plot lines.The former are easily forgettable. But the latter incite anger in some fans and as well enthusiasm in others.Take Jack and Jill for example. In the film, Adam Sandler plays his own twin sister, and Al Pacino plays himself, madly in love with the female Adam Sandler.Films like this are recognized by the Golden Raspberry Award Foundation, also known as the Razzies. It announced its nominees for the worst films of 2011 late last month.Jack and Jill is nominated for worst picture. Adam Sandler made history by receiving 11 nominations, including his work on another worst-picture nominee, Bucky Larson: Born to Be a Star.Will these films live on in bad movie infamy?Cult status for bad moviesAfter all, some films are so terrible that they gain a cult of devoted followers. It’s those films that fans say can enhance our understanding and enjoyment of all movies.“There’s some room for play and room for unexpected delights,” Lance Duerfahrd, assistant professor at Purdue University, US, told the BBC. “Nothing we see in a good film is as real as the surprises in bad ones.”If bad movies want to become discussion-worthy, they need to aspire to be good films, according to John Wilson, founder of the Razzies.“You have to be a lunatic to get a movie made, that’s for sure,” Wilson said in an interview with the Entertainment Weekly.“When you see that lunacy on screen, even when it’s not in the service of the dialogue, or the script, it sticks with you.”Over the top films welcomedWilson pointed out that it’s almost a trend now, that “the willingness to go over the top, and to do something strange is welcomed in a big budget movie”.And it’s the trend that has fans of bad movies worried.“The saddest thing is that over the 32 years that we’ve been doing the Razzies, original bad, like original good, has just fallen by the wayside,” Wilson said.The problem appears to be endemic in the film industry, with several best picture nominees failing to connect with the audience. The Descendants is called “the Oscar film that nobody likes”. And less than half of the critics warmed to Extremely Loud, Incredibly Close.However, some films can still surprise and delight.“I get why people are all delighted with The Artist,” Wilson said. “That was a brave, risky movie to make.”“By the same token, Bucky Larson is a brave, unusual, risky movie to be made,” he said.Whether those risks will be rewarded with a place in the canon of memorably bad films, we might find out when Razzies are awarded on April 1.
