Dragons’ return
The odds of becoming a success in the music industry are slim, and the odds of continuing that mainstream success are even less likely. However, the Las Vegas-based rock band Imagine Dragons is hoping to be the exception to the rule with a global tour that, for the first time, comes to China on Aug 19.The tour aims to promote their sophomore album Smoke + Mirrors, which is inspired by the band’s own transformation. Only a few years ago, the band members say they were performing in bars. Now, they are Grammy Award-winners, thanks to their debut album Night Visions.“A lot of the themes in the music reflect the highs and lows of life on the road. You face some of your most exhilarating and lonely hours when you play show after show around the world,” 28-year-old frontman Dan Reynolds told Time Out magazine.His lyrics convey those sentiments. Reynolds moans in the song Gold about the anxiety that comes after success: “First comes the blessing of all that you dreamed / But then comes the curses of diamonds and rings.”The Cleveland Plain Dealer newspaper praised the new album as “a more complete body of work” than Night Visions, thanks to its raw emotions and style. But Smoke + Mirrors makes another breakthrough, by experimenting with different genres.“Throughout the album, the genre mash-ups come fast and furious – from the New Wave-tinged dance-rock of Shots to Friction, a whirl of Eastern strings, art-metal yammering, R&B Auto-Tune and electronic knock-hockey,” noted Rolling Stone magazine.After the success of their first major hit song, Radioactive – which spent 87 weeks on Billboard’s Hot 100 in 2013 – expectations were high for Imagine Dragons’ sophomore album. And not everyone was satisfied with the outcome. The Washington Post found that the new album followed “much the same formula” as Night Visions. But the band swept away all doubts after the first few legs of their global tour.There’s never a lack of rock ’n’ roll and sing-along moments, according to The Seattle Times. “Imagine Dragons learned to be good entertainers playing the Las Vegas Strip, where the energy level had to be high in order to draw a crowd,” wrote the newspaper.
