No-nos of holiday fashion
A beach town in the US state of New Jersey recently passed a ban on trousers, jeans or shorts that hang more than 3 inches (7.6 cm) below the hips, a hip-hop style that originated in US prisons. Anyone who breaks the rules, which apply on the town’s boardwalk, will be fined $25-100 (154-615 yuan) the first time, and $200 for a repeat offense.But those low-hanging pants aren’t the only fashion crime. Here are some other items of popular travel clothing that may also need to be banned.Thai Fisherman PantsThese lightweight cotton unisex pants that are wide in the waist and were originally designed for Thai fishermen, are popular due to their comfort, durability and relative ease of wearing. But the bad news is that wearing these pants isn’t the way to “go local” in Bangkok. All they do is make you fit in with the many backpackers roaming the city.“Wearing them with thongs to wander around town is considered ‘low class’ (even if we don’t say it out loud),” wrote a local Bangkok woman, who called herself “Beebah” online, on travel-sharing website Virtual Tourist. “It’s better to dress ‘respectable’ if you want to be treated well. Even a T-shirt and shorts are better than fisherman pants and tight sleeveless shirts.”If you really love these comfy pants, wear them “when relaxing around your guesthouse, not when you’re sightseeing or eating out in good restaurants”, said Beebah.Slogan T-shirtsWearing T-shirts with slogans in the local language on them may seem cool to some young tourists who are swept up in the excitement of being in a foreign country for the first time. And let’s be fair, some of the slogans, like “I heart NY”, aren’t bad.But the thing about this trend is that slogan T-shirts are supposed to be a means of telling the world what you care about. Are you sure you want those words, of which you probably don’t even know the meaning, to speak for you? They could be some meaningless words and make you look really stupid.What’s worse, some slogan T-shirts are political — you might get yourself into trouble without even knowing it.CrocsComfortable and easy to slip on and off, Crocs have been go-to-beach shoes for many people. Even former US president George W. Bush was known for his fondness of Crocs, paired with socks.But let’s admit it: these holey plastic clogs are deadly ugly in every way. If you search online for “Crocs”, you’ll find that there are many haters of the shoes. A video on YouTube shows a woman cutting a yellow pair of Crocs into pieces before putting them in a blender. And there is a Facebook page called “Let’s Burn Crocs!”“They [Crocs] are the ultimate example of what happens when practicality supersedes normal boundaries of taste,” said a CNN story. “Proponents would have it that their hideousness is outweighed by comfort, but Babygros are comfy, too. You don’t feel the need to parade around in them, do you?”
