Gatsby’s story told in style
If you never read the classic F. Scott Fitzgerald novel The Great Gatsby, now is your chance to catch up — by watching the latest film adaptation. Because if there’s one sentence to sum up the film, it would be, as Fox News says in its review, “It’s just like the book.”Director Baz Luhrmann’s main challenge was “either to find a visual equivalent for Fitzgerald’s elegant prose — the open secret of the book’s staying power — or to bend the material to his own exotic strengths,” a Time magazine review says. He tries it both ways, with varying degrees of success.Luhrmann’s adaptation captures the luxurious lifestyle of certain New York socialites during the 1920s. The sets, costumes, music and overly stylized tone reflect the exorbitance of these vapid characters. He also tricks the audience into accepting this hollow lifestyle of gossip, booze and materialism, just like his narrator Nick Carraway (Tobey Maguire).Carraway moves to New York for the summer to visit his cousin Daisy (Carey Mulligan). His next-door neighbor is the mysterious Jay Gatsby (Leonardo DiCaprio), who every weekend throws the most extravagant parties. The rumor mill spins and nobody knows who Gatsby really is.Carraway becomes friends with Gatsby and gets swept up into his unrealistic lifestyle, when Gatsby asks him to re-introduce him to his ex-girlfriend Daisy, who is already married.“All of Fitzgerald’s original creation finds its way into this film, even going as far to include quite a bit of the original dialogue,” US film critic Justin Taroli writes in his review. At times, the script is even too faithful to the book, in that little is left to interpretation, Taroli adds.DiCaprio does a good job as the mysterious socialite by re-creating Fitzgerald’s description of Gatsby’s charm. “He can look at someone for an instant and understand how, ideally, he or she wants to be seen,” David Denby, film critic for The New Yorker, says in his review.Mulligan, delightful as always, adds depth to the flamboyant Daisy. “Mulligan makes it clear how much Daisy is a shaky projection of male fantasy,” Denby says.The use of music is almost reason enough to see the film. “Luhrmann is at his best blending visual and musical styles together to create something wholly original,” the Fox News review said.For example, in one of the most outstanding scenes in the film, the first party scene, Carraway bounces from party guest to party guest trying to decipher all the gossip about Gatsby until he is finally introduced to the man himself, while the most sensationalized version of Rhapsody in Blue (composed by American musician George Gershwin in 1924) ever to grace cinema screens plays in the background.It’s pure Luhrmann and pure The Great Gatsby.
