Dinos bite back
Twenty-two years ago, US director Steven Spielberg brought dinosaurs back from extinction in the groundbreaking film “Jurassic Park”. Now the park has officially reopened as a fully functioning resort in long-awaited new installment “Jurassic World”, giving audiences a chance to relive the magic of the dinosaur island.This time the island has been transformed into a Disney-like theme park where dinosaurs are the biggest attraction. After 10 years in operation, the park is lacking in new thrills for visitors, so the park’s owners decide to create a hybrid dinosaur to reignite interest. When this new dinosaur breaks loose, the island is plunged into chaos.The new entry pays tribute to the original “Jurassic Park” series in many ways. It’s not difficult for Jurassic fans to find the allusions: the gate of the resort, for example, looks exactly like the one in the 1993 movie, and the statue of Jurassic Park’s creator John Hammond from the first two entries of the series is present.Last month blockbuster “Avengers: Age of Ultron” also included many twists related to its previous films and other Marvel superheroes. But in “Jurassic Park” these details are just Easter eggs. They don’t keep newcomers from understanding the storyline and enjoying this exhilarating film.The original “Jurassic Park” set the bar high, and the first two sequels failed to live up to fans’ expectations. They updated the park’s technology, darkened the storyline and made the monsters much meaner, but nothing more.“Jurassic World” also faces similar criticisms, but I think the film’s creators did try to bring in something new. In the previous Jurassic films, dinosaurs create a horrifying atmosphere and demand people respect nature, an essential theme in other monster film series like King Kong and Godzilla.In Jurassic World, humans have grown accustomed to the existence of the prehistoric dinosaurs, in large part due to the efforts of Velociraptor expert Owen Grady (Chris Pratt), who insists scientists aren’t taming the creatures but “creating a relationship” with them. This relationship helps in vital points in the movie.The film closes leaving some questions unanswered. Will the geneticists create more brutal hybrid dinosaurs and will these big animals be used as weapons of war? Another sequel seems to be a sure thing, so we can already start awaiting the answers.
