One mighty angel
In recent box office hit Love on the Cloud, Hong Kong star Angelababy goes on a blind date with someone she meets through WeChat. Though the man decides he’ll run away if the woman doesn’t look as expected, he’s shocked to discover she’s prettier than he could ever imagine.Obviously, the key to this story is an abnormally pretty face, and few actresses can compete in that department with Angelababy, who has long been described as a beautiful goddess.Angelababy started her career at age 14 as a model before going on to star in about 20 movies. For a while, all the public knew about the star was that she was beautiful and was dating Huang Xiaoming. However, the 25-year-old has surprised audiences with her “anti-baby” toughness in popular TV show Running Man.As the only regular female on the show, the nymph-like Angelababy competes in difficult tasks against male competitors. In one game she’s required to wrestle with men, and in another she must crawl through a pit of mud. She goes all out to complete the missions and score a win, paying little attention to how she appears on the screen. She appears in the show without any makeup on several occasions. Her exaggerated facial expressions and gestures, despite not being becoming of a goddess, endear audiences.“Angelababy was a surprise choice for our cast. She may have been a sweet cover girl and sexy heroine before, but now she is a superwoman with guts and responsibility,” Running Man’s chief producer Yu Hangying told Sina.In an interview with Tencent Entertainment, the actress revealed she’s actually a tomboy, just as we see on Running Man. Her favorite thing to do outside of work is to stay home and play games like League of Legends, though co-star Chen He said on a Youku talk show that Angelababy is still a total noob.As reality shows have been popular for China now for a decade, perhaps audiences are more willing to warm up to stars that aren’t otherworldly but instead exhibit genuine character and a down-to-earth personality. Whether she’s simply catering to her audience or being true to herself, one thing is for sure — Angelababy’s tough-girl schtick is being well-received by fans.
