Slow, steady path to success
On Feb 15, the day after his 40th birthday, Liao Fan finally got to know what real fame tastes like. That day, he won the prize for Best Actor at the 64th Berlin film festival for his role as a washed up ex-cop in the crime thriller Black Coal, Thin Ice, which won the jury’s Silver Bear.“Yesterday was Valentine’s Day and also the beginning of spring in China and the whole of Berlin was in love,” Liao, the first actor ever in China to receive the title, said on stage while accepting the award. “Yesterday was also my 40th birthday. I think this was the most wonderful present you could give me.”It certainly is an inspiring story. But since the news came out, many have had the same response on the Internet: Who is Liao?Graduated from Shanghai Theatre Academy in 1997, Liao was in the same class with Li Bingbing and Ren Quan. But compared with them, who both became popular at an early age, Liao took his time, looking for parts that he was really interested in.Now, after almost 20 years as an actor, Liao has portrayed many impressive characters, such as the mercenary manager in Meng Jinghui’s classic stage play Rhinoceros in Love, the curve wrecker in the TV series Cherish Our Love Forever, and the gangster in Let the Bullets Fly. However, after trying all these different roles, he remains the perfect sidekick.He Yan, Liao’s mentor in college, told the Shanghai-based Wenhui Daily that Liao is “a man with distinct personality, and even a little unworldly”, who always considers performing as an art rather than a way of making money. For his perseverance, Liao even got the nickname “ascetic monk for art”.But Liao’s hard pursuit of artistic films has paid off. For example, in 2005, he won the Best Actor award at the 16th Singapore International Film Festival for Green Hat; three years later, he was nominated for the Best Actor award at the 45th Golden Horse Awards for his performance in Ocean Flame.Now, at 40, Liao has achieved a big breakthrough in his career and life. But Liao expects no change after this. “I’ve always been interested in the complexity of humanity. So that’s still my top priority when I’m creating a character,” Liao said in an interview with The Beijing News on Feb 17.“As for the question of whether my paycheck is going to change after winning the award,” he continued. “All I can say is, it’s not something I should worry about.”
