New kid doesn't have his old kick
At the age of seven, Jaden Smith appeared in his first movie, The Pursuit of Happiness, playing the son of his real father, Hollywood legend Will Smith. At that same age, in 1961, Jackie Chan was enrolled in the China Drama Academy, where his master Yu Yim-yuen taught martial-arts skills into young boys’ bodies and minds. Both actors understand the discipline of child acting and how to charm an audience, and these skills are on full display in the remake of The Karate Kid.Directed by Harald Zwart, of the Netherlands, the new movie duplicates the original story of the 1984 movie. But the new version is set in China, where the title character, a 12-year-old named Dre Parker (Jaden Smith), has moved with his widowed mother Sherry Parker (Taraji P Henson).It was filmed almost entirely in China–mostly in Beijing. There are visits to the Great Wall, the Forbidden City and a mountain temple, but mostly there is the lively bustle of Beijing. The dull settings make the long movie (2 hours and 12 minutes) a little dreary.Dre and Sherry have moved from Detroit, fleeing sad memories of Dre’s father’s death and seeking new job opportunities. It’s a rough transition for Dre. He becomes the victim of a group of bullies whose ringleader is Cheng (Wang Zhenwei), a star pupil at a kung fu academy. Dre’s crush on Mei Ying (Han Wenwen), an aspiring violinist, is not promising either, since she’s a childhood friend of Cheng.A few losing rounds with Cheng and his gang send Dre on his journey to find himself, with help from Mr Han (Jackie Chan).You don’t have to be familiar with the first Karate Kid to know what will happen. There will be rigorous training, beginning with the repetition of a simple, boring task–in this case taking off and hanging up a jacket (rather than the car waxing of the first movie). There will be revelations, misunderstandings and montage sequences that somehow do not make the story go any faster. Then the final showdown with the bad kung fu kids.While the clichéd plot may bore some audience members, the chemistry between Smith and Chan gives the film some fresh air.When a child star is cute and has a few instinctual acting moves, that’s probably enough for him to get by. Smith scores on both counts. It’s no surprise the camera loves him, and he certainly has presence.With his father currently out of the movie business (he has made no pictures since Seven Pounds in 2008, and has nothing come out until a Men in Black sequel in 2012), Jaden may even have to carry the burden of family celebrity.For Chan and his worldwide fan base, The Karate Kid is a homecoming of sorts. At 56, Chan’s body is battered after decades of movie fights. He has wisely decided that less is more. Since the buddy film Little Big Soldier (《大兵小将》), he is relying more on inward acting and charm than on action choreography. His Han is a broken man, always hiding the pain of his old wounds, and needing a child to teach him that his life still has value, if he can only pass along what he has learned and endured. In a sense, that is Chan’s mission here.The Karate Kid has some neat martial maneuvers, but at its heart is the bond created by two “child actors”, raised in dramatically different circumstances half a world and nearly a half-century apart. Their connection is strong, sweet and worth applauding.
