Ready to rock until you drop?
The Labor Day holiday means another season of music festivals is coming. It’s time for music lovers in China to break out their festival gear and get ready for a blast. As usual, you can expect the cream of local artists along with a few international acts to deliver musical entertainment for days. But a good festival experience begins long before you watch that first musician take the stage. From planning and packing, to choosing a wardrobe style and actually being at the event, check out our 21 tips to make sure you have a rocking time.It’s best to go prepared1. After getting your ticket, study the festival schedule as soon as possible. Besides checking on the location, transportation arrangements and musicians to see, you can also plan your arrival time to avoid missing your favorite band even if you’re stuck in traffic or busy setting up tents.2. The Internet is your friend here. Schedules and updates (sudden band cancellations and delays) may appear on the event website, so check often.Take everything you needYou may not consider all these items to be necessary, but it’s better to be overprepared than underprepared. On to the checklist:3. Lightweight towel: Music festivals can get messy. With a towel you can sit down for a rest anywhere, or dry yourself off if things get wet.4. Cash: Most transactions will require cash. There may be ATMs, but expect long lines.5. Spray-on sunscreen: Spray is quicker than lotion and gives you better coverage.6. Poncho: Lighter and easier to pack than an umbrella, but just as effective.7. Others: phone charger, bug spray, tissues, earplugs and band-aids.Don’t forget to have a great time:8. Plan out the details: Don’t expect to rely on your phone when contacting your friends inside – it’ll either be dead or without service. Also, remember that as the day progresses, the grounds will get more and more packed. So if you’re trying to be somewhere at a specific time, take walking time into consideration.9. Avoid the hottest time of the day: If you can’t stand the heat, go later in the day.10. Eat breakfast, lunch and dinner: With constant walking and standing, especially on a hot day, you’ll need all the energy you can get.11. Drink water constantly: Passing out is the opposite of fun. Keep yourself hydrated to avoid a medical emergency.12. Go light on the booze: Yes, beer and live music are an excellent pair, but pace yourself. How annoyed will you be if you don’t even remember the best set of the day?13. Live the moment: Weibo, WeChat and Instagram are hardwired into our lives. But concerts are always better when you’re absorbed in the experience, so let your social network wait. And let’s be honest: You’re never going to watch those phone videos again anyway.14. Break your plan: Festivals are about adventure and discovery, so don’t treat your plan like a class schedule. If you’re walking past a band you don’t know, but like the sound, stop and listen. Just go with the flow.Choose a style and look the partMusic festivals are about live music, but they’re also a runway of chic fashionista fans, sharing their love for music in style. If you’re wondering what to wear to the occasion, here are a few ideas:15. Dress in denim: Dress up your denim by pairing it with lace or floral to create a cute and flirty look. Or, to create a more grunge feel, throw on a graphic tee with a pair of old, ripped jeans.16. Bohemian beauty: Bohemian style is a classic look for music festivals. The key is to accessorize and pay attention to detail. Put on a maxi dress or skirt for a carefree appearance and then accessorize your heart out.17. Tribal time: Bold colors and print will make you stand out in the crowd. Don’t be afraid to mix and match prints as well. Make sure to pair your tribal prints with a simple accessory to make the print stand out that much more.18. Backpack: Distributing the weight across your body instead of on one shoulder is crucial.19. Straw hat: Block the sun from your eyes while looking totally bohemian chic.20 Sunglasses: Shield your eyes from harsh UV rays and look cooler.21. Comfortable shoes: Prepare two pairs if possible. If it rains, you’ll be glad you listened to us.
