Untangle this mini mystery
HBO’s new limited dramatic crime series The Night Of will keep you on edge as it unfolds the fate of Nasir “Naz” Khan, an American-born college student of Pakistani *descent from the New York *borough of Queens, trying to fit into a United States of America that is often hostile.A night that begins with promise ends up going very wrong for the shy and mild-mannered Naz, played by Riz Ahmed. He takes his father’s cab without permission to go to a party in Manhattan, hoping to meet girls. And when an attractive, but troubled, young woman named Andrea Cornish gets into the cab believing he’s on duty, Naz can’t turn her away.But happiness soon turns to horror. After a *debauched night of sex and drugs at her place, Nasir wakes up to find Andrea dead, the victim of multiple stab wounds. Did he kill her? Later-shown *ample evidence seems to confirm that he did, but we don’t know for sure.Based on the BBC series Criminal Justice (2008), the eight-part show is on the surface *procedural, yet it has something of the feel of the crime-based podcast Serial (2014-) or the Netflix documentary Making a Murderer (2015-) as it explores a *tangled case, with elements of racism and a justice system overburdened by human failings.“Growing up as a Muslim-American, post-9/11, you kind of have a very (unpleasant) relationship toward the authorities; you are told you are automatically a suspect,” Ahmed says. “It certainly does play into what you can expect in the criminal justice system. People view you as a threat.”Rather than present *a carousel of would-be killers as so many prime-time *whodunits are prone to do, The Night Of invites the viewer to ponder the fate of its single key suspect without trying to pull the wool over their eyes in the process. Did he do it? If he didn’t, who did and why? Is the soon-to-be-retired police detective (Bill Camp) making too many easy assumptions? Will the anti-Muslim tensions in the community further *hamper Nasir’s chances of *acquittal?The Night Of dutifully delves into the social and political undertones present in American criminal cases – along with the emotional *carnage they cause – as it explores the police investigation and legal proceedings. And it takes on added layers when it follows Nasir to prison, where he is the *proverbial fish out of water.The miniseries unfolds in leisurely fashion – maybe too leisurely for some viewers. But it’s hard not to admire how carefully observed and precisely rendered the scenes are. You could do worse than to lock yourself away to watch this carefully put together masterpiece.
