Inside the den of wolves
For moviegoers who are animal lovers and people who yearn for a connection with nature, Wolf Totem is highly recommended.Based on Jiang Rong’s novel of the same name, the 3-D adventure epic is about Chen Zhen (Feng Shaofeng) and Yang Ke (Shawn Dou) being sent from Beijing to Inner Mongolia in the 1960s to live with a nomadic tribe. They are among the 17 million urban middle school grads in the “cultural revolution” (1966-76), who answered Chairman Mao’s call to go work and live with local villagers in poor provinces. After saving the life of a wolf cub and raising it in secret, Chen becomes captivated by the ferocious, agile and intelligent creature.French filmmaker Jean-Jacques Annaud, who also directed The Bear (1988) and Two Brothers (2004) has proven he knows how to create a movie about wild animals. While watching a pack of wolves ambush a herd of gazelles over the snow-blanketed grasslands, I held my breath just like Chen and gray-bearded local leader Bilig (Basen Zhabu). And during a night snowstorm, as the wolves chased after a group of horses, I could feel the protagonists’ desperation welling up in my throat.Through Annaud’s lens we observe the brutality of the wolves. The director’s close-up shots of the wolves are particularly impressive.These days, many animals in films are computer animated, such as Caesar in the recent Planet of the Apes movies (2011, 2014) and the tiger that Yang Zirong fights in The Taking of Tiger Mountain (2014). But Wang Weimin, the producer of Wolf Totem told China Daily that “our movie needed real wolves”.British animal trainer Andrew Simpson spent three years raising and training a pack of wolves for the movie, watching them grow from cubs to adults. During the shooting of the movie, leading actor Feng would play with the wolves, feed them and clean their dens. The process helped Feng develop a deeper understanding of the wild creature. He told Mtime that “Wolves can treat you as friends, but never as owners.”However, wolves are not particularly prone to following a director’s instructions, so Simpson and Annaud sometimes had to wait a whole day just to capture the right scene.One of Wolf Totem’s most prominent themes is the contradiction between nature and human civilization. To meet the need of feeding a growing population, the ecological balance of the grasslands was destroyed. But much of this theme is presented through Chen’s voiceovers, making the film a bit too didactic.Another problem with the film is the unnecessary romance between Chen and Gasma, a mother whose husband is killed by wolves. The limited interaction between the two as depicted is not enough to deliver a profound love story. Chen’s relationships with his wolf and Bilig are much more compelling.But despite a few slight narrative flaws and lackluster 3-D imagery, there’s no denying that with Wolf Totem, Annaud has crafted a film upon a truly original premise.
