A royal mess: Kate sparks privacy row
The British royals can’t seem to get a break. Only weeks after photos of Prince Harry’s naked party in Las Vegas hit the tabloids, a French magazine has published topless photos of Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge.It has been confirmed that the images are genuine, taken apparently with a telephoto lens while Middleton and her husband, Prince William, were sunbathing on vacation in southern France. A spokesman for the royal family said the Duke and Duchess were “hugely saddened” that the publication, Closer, had “invaded their privacy in such a grotesque and unjustifiable manner”.Middleton and Prince William are reportedly suing Closer over invasion of privacy. The magazine’s editor, Laurence Pieau, defended the decision to run the photos, saying they are “not in the least shocking”.The Irish Daily Star also published the photos on September 15. The news came after Italian gossip magazine Chi said it planned to print the pictures in a special 26-page issue this week, the BBC reported.British newspapers have voluntarily agreed not to print photos of Kate other than at public engagements and they have been quick to condemn foreign publications that have published the photos.Mike O’Kane, editor of the Irish Daily Star, said he treated Kate as he would any celebrity.O’Kane told the BBC that he was “taken aback” by the UK’s reaction to the story, claiming that the printed photos were only causing upset in Britain and not the rest of Europe.“The duchess would be no different to any other celeb pics we would get in.” Speaking to the BBC News Channel, the editor added that he printed the photos of the Duchess as a “service to our readers”.“She’s married into the royal family, she’s one of the most photographed people in the world, and she decides to partially disrobe on a balcony where it can be seen from a public road. Of course people are going to be interested in this,” he said.These photos have caused renewed debate over how much privacy a public figure is entitled to.Former UK prime minister John Major told the BBC that the photographer’s actions were those of a “peeping Tom” and a boundary had “plainly been crossed”.Steven Baxter, writing on the UK-based news website New Statesman, agrees. “This is taking invasion of privacy too far. This is different from printing Prince Harry’s naked photos,” he says, because the notoriously indiscreet prince “should have seen that one coming”.“Kate, on the other hand, is not being drunk, not partying, she is just standing there”, Baxter says. “There is no public interest. There is no value other than curiosity and prurience. There is no reason for anyone to see those photos, which are a huge violation of privacy.”But the sad truth is that although most of us can draw lines between decency and distastefulness, many of us are still going to have a look at these photos.How soon before the lines get blurred again between “things people want to see” and “things which are in the public interest”, Baxter wonders. “We may all claim the moral high ground, but how many of us can resist the temptation?”
