'This Is It': No. 1, but still disappointing
Sony’s much-hyped Michael Jackson documentary, "This Is It," failed to thrill a mega audience in North America, selling a solid if unspectacular $21.3 million in tickets over the weekend, for a five-day total of about $32.5 million.But overseas was another story, where, as expected, a stronger fan base delivered big results. The film, compiled from 120 hours of rehearsal footage for the London concert run Mr. Jackson was preparing at the time of his death in June, had about $68.5 million in international sales in its first five days, according to the studio.Even though the film was No. 1, Hollywood was quick to judge the result a disappointment. Sony had done everything it could to promote the picture as a must-see event, fanning interest by releasing it with a stunt — a supposedly limited theatrical run of only two weeks — and by generating enormous news-media coverage by staging 17 premieres around the world.The studio was hoping positive word of mouth from Jackson devotees on Wednesday and Thursday would power "This Is It" on Friday, knowing that it would be tough to compete with Halloween on Saturday. When Friday grosses came in, it was clear that didn’t happen, at least to the extent the industry and AEG Live, the concert promoter, expected.Putting all the hoopla aside, however, the results were quite solid. With a worldwide total of $101 million for the film, Sony, which paid $60 million to make the movie (not including marketing costs), is well on its way to turning a fat profit, especially when DVD sales are included."We couldn’t be more pleased — a tremendous result," said Rory Bruer, Sony’s president for worldwide distribution. The studio noted that "This Is It" beat the previous record for a concert film. "Hannah Montana/Miley Cyrus: Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour," the former record holder, had a lifetime worldwide gross in 2008 of $70.6 million, according to Box Office Mojo."This Is It" consisted of scenes of him rehearsing numbers — sometimes whole-heartedly, sometimes not — at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Critical reviews for the film, directed by Kenny Ortega ("High School Musical"), were quite positive.Fans Gather Worldwide to Welcome Jackson Film In London about 1,100 people gathered in Leicester Square for the premiere. The dance troupe Diversity — winner of the television competition "Britain’s Got Talent" — performed a tribute; and fans wore Jackson-inspired fedoras, gloves and jackets.In Paris the film played at 7 a.m. to 2,800 people at the Grand Rex theater. In Beijing Jackson impersonators lined up before entering a screening that had sold out long in advance, Agence France-Presse reported. Sony has said that it will be releasing the film in 2,400 theaters in China.
