Romance on film
Celebrity couples are the fuel behind thousands of gossip columnists, tabloids and paparazzi, but the question has always remained: Can they mobilize the same influence at the box office?Deng Chao and Sun Li decided to take a gamble and see if they could translate their real-life chemistry into onscreen magic. Their latest cinematic pairing, Devil and Angel (《恶棍天使》), topped last weekend’s box office, as fans flocked to cinemas to drool over their favorite power couple.But in spite of its commercial success, the film has received damning reviews from critics. It scored a mere 3.9 on the movie review site Douban as of Dec 29.“Deng is not the material for a director, and Sun is not for comedy,” one writer declared. Top film critic Raymond Zhou echoed that sentiment, calling the film pure “rubbish” at a director’s forum.Several years ago, before they got married, Deng and Sun co-starred in two TV series, Happiness as Flowers (《幸福像花儿一样》, 2005) and Sweet (《甜蜜蜜》, 2008).But after they got married in 2010, their careers parted ways. Deng focused on acting for the big screen, while doing some reality TV shows on the side. His playful personality and good sense of humor on the TV hit Running Man (《奔跑吧，兄弟！》) built him a large fan base.Sun, on the other hand, has earned the title of “Queen of Television” with TV dramas like Legend of Zhen Huan (《甄嬛传》, 2011) and Legend of Mi Yue (《芈月传》).Devil and Angel is the couple’s first film collaboration since Mural (《画壁》, 2011), which was given poor ratings as well.Sun and Deng share the curse of poor critical reviews with another actor-couple, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie-Pitt from the US. This year, Jolie-Pitt directed and co-starred next to her husband in By the Sea, an art-house drama that critics labeled a failure.“It’s like a fashion magazine put out a video to help you sleep,” Arizona Republic reviewer Bill Goodykoontz remarked.But some couples are able to defy the trend and make well-reviewed films. Chen Sicheng and Tong Liya, for instance, have set a positive example. As a director, Chen will release his new film, Detective Chinatown (《唐人街探案》), on Dec 31. It stars his wife Tong as the most stunning Chinese woman in Thailand. Tong’s main mission is to display her beauty and elegance.Maybe one day, Deng and Sun can follow in their footsteps and produce a critical triumph. In the meantime, the sudden drop in Deng’s Weibo fans may indicate that audiences quickly tire of cutesy couples and their lousy movies.
