Harry gets authentic
BOY wizard Harry Potter is back in global cinemas this week, including those here in China, with the sixth installment of the movie franchise.Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince promises high-speed action and dark and dangerous battles with the forces of evil. There’s also budding romance at Hogwarts school for wizards and the expected death of a main character. In it, the Hogwarts headmaster Dumbledore is busy: he’s intent on preparing Harry for a final showdown with the evil Lord Voldemort, who is seeking to tighten his grip on the worlds of wizards and non-wizards.Love is in the air as well, in this installment. Ron Weasley (Rupert Grint) is dating the air-head Lavender Brown (Jessie Cave), putting Hermione Granger (Emma Watson) in a jealous  snit. Harry’s in his own love triangle too, falling for Ron’s sister, Ginny (Bonnie Wright), who’s dating another student.But Harry has a more dangerous enemy than the romantic rival-that’s Draco Malfoy (Tom Felton), who is now a troubled youth, on the side of Voldemort."Really, this film is more sex, potions and rock ’n’ roll," commented the film’s British director. A film critic told the AP that Half-Blood Prince is the best one of all the Potter films: "Previous installments played out in a supernatural story of little connection to our ordinary world. [But this one] brims with authentic people and honest interaction - hormonal teens bonding with great humor, and heartache that will resonate with anyone who remembers the bitterness of first love."Also, the visual-effects technology is said to be good, having caught up with author J.K. Rowling’s imagination. If you’ve been waiting two years since the last Harry Potter film, then hurry off to the theater to catch this one. It’ll be quite worth watching. What’s life like after Harry PotterEmma Watson, 19She’ll be putting her career on hold next month to enrol at an Ivy League college -Brown University. "I think university, the college experience, just sounds so great. I just don’t want to miss out on it. I think it’s a great time to make friends. I think it’s a great time to figure out who you are and what you like. And I think, as an actress, when you portray a million different types of people from a million different backgrounds...if I’ve lived my whole life on film sets and on red carpets, how am I meant to portray someone who has a normal life?"Daniel Radcliffe, 19Radcliffe told MSN UK that he wanted to move beyond the boy-wizard character once the movie franchise wraps up. "Harry is brilliant, and I love playing him, but I do want to establish myself as someone other than that character," he said. Jason Isaacs, who plays a character in the Potter films, told the UK newspaper the Daily Telegraph that he sees Radcliffe giving up acting entirely. "Daniel will potentially be a great director or producer. He’s very interested in behind-the-camera work."
