Where you sit counts
Designers and their clothes are always the center of attention during fashion week.However, a select group among the hundreds in the audience at each fashion show may have the power to upstage the designers. They are the front row guests.Another fashion week has already ended in Paris. We’re waiting for reports on new fashion trends. Meanwhile, let’s take a moment to find out who sits in the front row at fashion shows and how they get there.At fashion week, it’s where you sit that counts.A normal fashion show offers about 500 seats, and audience is usually made up of news media, retailers, friends and celebrities. But the limited front-row seats are badge of honor.“The front row is such a trauma,” the Naeem Khan, an American designer who’s dressed Michelle Obama, told The New York Times. “I can’t have people coming backstage, crying, ‘I’m in the second row.’”To solve the problem Khan worked with a team of three publicists, to put each of the 872 guests at his runway show this season in the right seat. Only 104 of them will be in the front row.The role of mediaMedia usually count about half the audience in a fashion show. Most work for fashion magazines, fashion sections of a newspaper or websites.But only the most important fashion editors from top magazines, such as Vogue, Elle and Harper’s Bazaar, get to sit in the front row.Names like Anna Wintour (editor-in-chief of Vogue US), Grace Coddington (creative director of Vogue US), Suzy Menkes (senior fashion columnist for The New York Times) are always on the front-row guest list, given their influence in the fashion industry.Lately, thanks to the growth of new social media, some grassroots fashion bloggers, such as Bryan Boy and Tommy Ton, have become popular and been given front-row seats as well.Celebs love fashionStars started to appear on the cover of fashion magazines in the early 1990s. Since then, celebrities and fashion are inseparable. They have made the fashion week front-row culture complete.Usually, A-listers invited to a fashion show sit in the center area of the front row. They are either personal friends of the designer, regular customers of the brand, or the brand’s spokesperson.Top celebs, such as Beyoncé Knowles and socialite Paris Hilton, can get a front-row seat to any show they want.For newly rising stars, a fashion show is a good opportunity to grab more attention.Who can get them in? It’s a publicist’s job. Any publicist who has a good relationship with a certain brand has the power to build a bridge between a star and the runway show, according to the star’s taste and style.Once a fresh young star attends fashion week, who knows, he or she might even become a potential spokesperson. For example, designer Karl Lagarfield took a shine to Blake Lively from Gossip Girl when she attended a Chanel show two years ago. Not long after that Lively appeared in Chanel adverts.Chinese faces at fashion weekIt’s almost a tradition now: fashion week seats several Chinese women in the front row.Early on, Chinese stars who appeared at fashion week were internationally famous, such as Maggie Cheung and Zhang Ziyi.But in the past two years, the list has gone on and on: Zhou Xun, Fan Bingbing, Yao Chen, Gao Yuanyuan and this season, Li Xiaolu and Huo Siyan.Some of them are virtually unknown in the West since none of their films have been shown anywhere outside of China. Yet they still make it to the front row. How?“It’s an all round impact of China power–the increasing influence of China in the world, the growing fashion business in China, and also stronger PR companies,” Hong Huang, writes in a feature for Women’s Wear Daily.Hong pointed out that PR companies play an important role in getting Chinese stars to fashion week.“A PR company introduces a fresh face to a certain fashion brand. This can bring more customers for the brand,” Hong said. “Meanwhile, the star needs exposure to fashion and to a wider audience. It’s totally win-win.”
