Back for more action
Michael Bay and the Transformers are inseparable. The 160 minutes of metal-crushing action and visual spectacle in the new Transformers: Age of Extinction is the latest evidence.The fourth installment of the franchise — also said to be the start of a new trilogy — picks up several years after 2011’s Transformers: Dark of the Moon, which ended with the Autobots’ victory in a battle against the evil Decepticons in Chicago, and Optimus Prime promising to always protect Earth and the humans. This time, the human-friendly Autobots are being targeted for elimination by a second generation of human-designed transformers.Throughout the movie, you can sense that director Bay is determined to add something new to the franchise. To begin with, he has changed to a whole new human cast. Shia LaBeouf is gone as Sam Witwicky, the Autobots’ teen friend, and in his place is Mark Wahlberg as Cade Yeager, a Texas mechanic who buys an old truck that turns out to be Optimus Prime. Megan Fox and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley are gone, too, but there’s Nicola Peltz as Tessa, Yeager’s 17-year-old daughter, who wears high heels and denim shorts, even when she’s on the run, so Bay’s camera can slobber all over her — some things never change.The movie also introduces two new things: “transformium”, a rare metal that humans use to build Autobot clones; and Dinobots, a new species of robot that was created during the Jurassic era. These ideas may make the movie go awry and seem weird to some viewers, but four movies into the series you can’t blame Bay for trying to keep the story going.The movie’s climax is set in China and Hong Kong, with the Chinese government and military playing helpful roles in the story. This international angle, plus the fact that the US military isn’t the world’s police, are a sharp change from past Transformers movies. Add several Chinese cast members and it’s easy to explain the 600 million yuan box office over the opening weekend in China alone.Of course, fans of the older Transformers movies will find many familiar themes, such as the exciting robot-to-robot fight scenes, the stunning 3-D effects, and the relentless devotion to product placement.But ultimately, analyzing the movie’s hits and flaws doesn’t matter much, since Transformers has a massive fan base both among younger fans who love the movies, and older fans who still love the cartoons and toys from their childhood. This is a series that’s performed consistently well for several years, and there’s no reason to doubt it will continue that trend.
