Game of digital love
Have you got a date for Valentine’s Day? If the answer is no, you may want to consider turning to dating apps for help. It’s super easy: All you need to do is upload an attractive photo of yourself and add a short but interesting self-introduction.Dating apps are changing the courtship landscape, even if you have only a small circle of friends. Have a crush on someone? Just give them a “thumb-up” on their profile. If it’s not reciprocated, no big deal. You don’t really know each other, so you don’t need to feel embarrassed. Besides, there are plenty of fish in the sea.You probably won’t meet “the one” through dating apps, but at least getting yourself out this way will open opportunities to meet new people.Some critics, however, say dating apps kill romance. Because they can match people based on their location, many people use dating apps as hook-up tools. They’re not interested in a serious relationship, but rather are looking for a short fling or even just a one-night-stand.Dan Slater, writing for The Atlantic, says dating apps are superficial and lazy. Dating apps make people believe there is always someone better out there and therefore they find it hard to commit to a relationship. What’s more, browsing through user profiles is not unlike browsing through commodities at a store. If you find a certain commodity unsatisfactory, you can simply replace it with another.In contrast, Jeffrey Kluger, writing for Time magazine’s website, says that although looking for romance on dating apps may seem like consuming products, our fundamental attitude toward love hasn’t changed that much.The way people pursue romance is always changing, Kluger says, from generation to generation and even year to year. Western countries have seen many transformations in the last century alone. “There was feminism (women’s liberation) in the 1970s. There was the pill (contraception) in the 1960s and the back seat of the Chevy (casual sex) in the 1950s,” Kluger says.Technology changes rapidly, but human beings do not. Admittedly, Kluger writes, some dating apps turn the whole dating experience into a kind of game. But gamification has always been a big part of the mating mix. Kluger writes: “Arm wrestling in a bar gamifies which man’s fitness display will best catch the eye of a woman.”Shana Lebowitz, as a dating app user, has a more intuitive view on dating apps. Writing for US-based media website Greatist.com, Lebowitz points out that the impact of dating apps depends on the specific person using it. But for many people, they provide “a sense of hope and confidence that doesn’t come from going through old photos of you and your ex”.
