It's goodbye forever, after all
"IT’s a wonderful life." That’s what everyone keeps telling Shrek: his wife, Fiona; his best friend, Donkey; and all the happy citizens of the kingdom of Far Far Away. But Shrek remains unconvinced.Feeling old, overworked and underappreciated, Shrek is clearly having a midlife crisis. So when shady dealmaker, Rumpelstiltskin, offers him a magic deal, Shrek immediately grabs it without reading the fine print.This is where the story begins in Shrek Forever After, the fourth and final installment of the green-ogre franchise. The story throws Shrek into an alternate reality in which he was never born, and thus has no friends or family, and no source of happiness. To add to his woes, he only has one day to earn Fiona’s true love as well as save the land and all who dwell in it.When Shrek premiered in 2001, no one predicted that it would go on to become the global phenomenon it is today. After all, Shrek is not a cute talking animal but a big, ugly green giant, making him almost a Disney anti-hero. Despite this, what makes the story of the giant green monster touch audiences is its special type of humor, which mainly references pop culture and popular fairytales.As a result, the Shrek series has shrewdly played to children as well as grown-ups. There are the kind of jokes that are sure to get the kids laughing. And there are the kind of pop-culture-referential jokes that are usually meant to accommodate adults while they are trapped in the theater. The kids aren’t really supposed to know that Princess Fiona is doing a move like Neo in The Matrix.Shrek Forever After is very low on pop culture references, which are cleverly used to shape the story. Such references borrow from classics like It’s a Wonderful Life and The Wizard of Oz.Some highlights of the film involve Shrek being gross, Fiona being tough, Donkey talking endlessly, Puss being fat, and Rumpelstiltskin trying to suck people into his contracts.Although the final installment moved the Shrek character forward by motivating him to action in order to return his life to normal, the film seemed to lack the feel of a genuine final chapter. However, as none of the sequels really lived up to the magic of the original, this is probably the right time for Shrek to say goodbye.Perhaps those wonderful characters that we’ve come to love so much can now live happily ever after.
