Stars and fans bid farewell to Oprah
Oprah Winfrey wiped away tears as celebrity after celebrity surprised her during a farewell double-episode taping of "The Oprah Winfrey Show" that will precede her finale."Thank you is not enough, but thank you," Winfrey told the crowd of 13,000 gathered at Chicago’s United Center on Tuesday night for "Surprise Oprah! A Farewell Spectacular." "For your love and your support, thank you."The crowd gave Winfrey a standing ovation when she first walked on the stage. Then the stars came out, with Winfrey’s producers making good on their promise of the biggest celebrities of movies, music and television.Aretha Franklin sang "Amazing Grace." Tom Hanks acted as host for the evening. Michael Jordan, who led the Chicago Bulls to six NBA championships during the 1990s, told Winfrey she inspires him. Tom Cruise, famous for his couch jumping on Winfrey’s show, was there. And Madonna said she is among the millions of people who are inspired by Winfrey.Winfrey announced in November 2009 that she would end her popular talk show after 25 years. Tuesday’s taping will air May 23 and 24, before Winfrey’s final show on May 25.Maria Shriver, the TV journalist and Kennedy heiress, appeared on the same day it was revealed her husband, Arnold Schwarzenegger, fathered a child with a woman on his household staff more than a decade ago. Shriver did not mention her husband during the taping."You have given me love, support, wisdom and most of all the truth," Shriver told Winfrey. "And I know I’m not alone in receiving those gifts from you."Beyonce sang her song "Run the World (Girls)" backed by dozens of dancers. Rascal Flatts performed too.Winfrey also received messages from some less-famous admirers. Female American soldiers gave a taped message from Iraq and three female fans from countries around the world came on stage. The show was interspersed with clips of Winfrey’s fans and flashbacks of previous episodes.Fans started lining up outside hours before the taping started. The content of the final episode of "The Oprah Winfrey Show" is still under wraps.
