Jewelry in a flash
You can’t always trust your eyes in the fashion world. A girl wearing a delicate gold bracelet may just be decked out with flash tattoos, a trendy type of temporary tattoo that creates the illusion of wearing a piece of jewelry.The craze for tattoo-jewelry has been heating up in recent months. Celebrities, from Brazilian supermodel Alessandra Ambrosio, 34, to American fashionista Kylie Jenner, 18, have been snapped sporting the faux jewelry. Music diva Beyonce Knowles even released her own flash tattoo collection last week. To keep you up-to-date with this trend, we offer a guide on how to rock these amazing new accessories.Upgrade your arm partyMix it up and pile it on! Vogue magazine senior fashion editor Jorden Bickham suggests matching your temporary tattoos with your regular style, even tossing a few pieces of your normal jewelry on top of your gilded tattoos. The idea “is that it becomes an illusion – the kind of thing where people have to ask, ‘Is that your jewelry or is that a tattoo?’”Create a statement necklaceBold, necklace-shaped flash tattoos can send a strong statement about who you are as a person. Miranda Burnet, founder of Flash Tattoo – the company collaborating with Beyonce on her tattoo line – pointed to the pop star’s new collection as a good example. She told the Daily Mail, “We wanted to focus on making a strong and empowering statement with the designs that embodied Beyonce–fierce, fabulous, and flawless!” These exact words appear in the collection, together with Queen Bey song titles like Crazy in Love and Naughty Girl.Create cool nail and finger artWhile flash tattoos are mostly displayed on exposed skin during the summertime, American nail stylist Sabella Snyder uses them in other seasons by incorporating them into her nail art designs. “Eye-catching gold designs are the perfect way to dress up your nails and complement intricate design work,” she told Nails magazine. She recommends cutting the tattoos into snippets and applying them to your fingers with water.
