Eventful year in entertainment
Every year, some of the biggest names in Hollywood and geek culture converge on downtown San Diego, California, US, to kick off the annual Comic-Con International, the nexus of all things entertainment, including film, TV and video games.This year’s event, from July 24 to 27, was a bit different, though. With movies like the new Star Wars and an Avengers sequel coming out, 2015 and 2016 already promise to be the biggest years in film history. So, there were some major reveals at the 2014 Comic-Con. Read on to find out more about the highlights.DC and Marvel in face offComic-Con 2013 was won by DC Comics and Warner Bros Pictures, who dropped the mega-bomb that the Batman v. Superman movie is really happening. It’s been quite a year between the announcement and this year’s Comic-Con.On July 26, director Zack Snyder revealed a teaser for Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice, as well as a first look at Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman. Was it surprising? Absolutely. But was it enough? Definitely not. We can only pray for an official trailer soon.Meanwhile, some new footage for The Avengers: Age of Ultron, which is set for release in May 2015, was unveiled by Marvel Studios. Marvel also announced official casting for Ant-Man and revealed that Guardians of the Galaxy 2 will arrive in theaters in July 2017.It looks like DC and Marvel will have some serious battles to fight in the following two years.Rise of comic book TV showsThe 2014-15 TV season will mark an unprecedented milestone for comic book fans, as no less than eight shows based on comic books will be aired.Comic-Con appearances by popular established shows like Arrow, The Walking Dead and Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. are nothing new. But at this year’s event, a big freshman class of comic book shows were revealed, including The Flash and iZombies on The CW; Marvel’s Agent Carter spinoff on ABC and a Daredevil TV series on Netflix; a Constantine TV reboot on NBC; and Fox’s Batman prequel series, Gotham.New Nolan film announcedThe thrilling first trailer for Interstellar, Christopher Nolan’s upcoming film, was dropped in May and showed Oscar-winning actor Matthew McConaughey embarking on a space mission with Anne Hathaway. But like all Nolan films, much of it was still wrapped in mystery.On July 25, a brand-new trailer that isn’t yet available to the public was unveiled during a Comic-Con panel. According to Entertainment Weekly, the new footage offers a few more clues about the plot: The astronauts are looking for another Earth where human life can thrive again, and stumble upon beautiful, yet hostile, planets.Back to pre-historic timesSome 22 years after Jurassic Park, the franchise’s first film, the long-awaited new installment, Jurassic World, will come to theaters in June 2015.On July 27, the first teaser poster for the film was released, giving Comic-Con attendees a first look.According to The Verge, the poster depicts a velociraptor standing on an overturned vehicle, while a building is being erected in the far distance. A helicopter carries a caged triceratops toward the building, hinting that the dinosaur, which played a small role in the first film, may appear in Jurassic World.Star Wars series launchAlthough the much-anticipated film Star Wars: Episode VII didn’t feature at this year’s Comic-Con, on July 24, Star Wars fans still got their first look at the new Star Wars Rebels series, which will premiere on the Disney Channel in October. While the animation wasn’t quite finished, it did evoke the look and feel of Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope (1977), according to USA Today.The new series takes place in the Star Wars timeline between Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope, and follows a ragtag group of rebels who are figuring out how to stand up against the monolithic power of the Empire, which has just taken control of the galaxy.
