Where art meets commerce
Chu Yuxun (Zheng Shuang) is still excited about her battle against campus bullies and her hair’s still wet and messy, when her piano teacher suddenly shows up and recommends a new shampoo brand. "You really need silk protein to take care of your hair," the woman says persuasively.The camera zooms in on the shampoo logo for what seems like an eternity.From that moment on, Chu, in Let’s Go Watch the Meteor Shower, is on a love journey with handsome young tycoons. And, envious female classmates and a forbidding mother are obstacles. And the poor girl has to deal with an endless line of embedded goods, from milk tea to a fitness center.The ad-soaked TV drama Meteor Shower gives us an idea of how desperate advertisers have become in trying to grab our attention, sacrificing artistic quality.Spoil sportWhatever the case is, ads planted in TV dramas and films are the order of the day. In Meteor Shower, observers have counted an average of four or five different products in one single episode, appearing almost every five minutes. Some appear for 20 to 30 seconds, others for much longer times.These fragmented ads spoil the fun and disturb the plot flow. They also seem a bit strange if the product doesn’t quite seem to fit the character. Tian Bailing, a sophomore at Xi’an Peihua University, was bewildered while watching Meteor Shower, when she saw four males strut into a car shop and all drive off in four new MGs. The well-born boys then use the cars in various stunts for eight minutes."It has a strong visual impact," Tian said. "But they were supposed to be members of the rich class. Why would they drive around in those cars instead of a dreamier BMW or Mercedes-Benz?"Cai Zhiyong, a veteran "embedded ad" developer with the United International Culture Communication in Beijing, says that awkwardness is a conflict between art and commerce.Cai explains that ad designers face a dilemma between script first or client first. Finding a client related to the plot can result in a natural look. For example, Shu Qi is originally an air hostess in If You Are the One, and there are airline ads.But in other cases, especially during the financial crisis, TV makers have to adapt their work to the needs of clients. Many of Meteor Shower’s ads fall in that category.It has been reported that one of the show’s producers, Yin Lian, had this problem. The original plot had Chu’s mom owning an ice-cream shop. But no ice-cream company wanted to support the show, so it became a milk tea shop. So the part where Yunhai eats 20 cups of ice creams to apologize to Chu ended up with Yunhai drinking 20 bottles of milk tea. Where’s the romance in that?Less is moreLi Yanfu, a Jilin University student that I spoke with, says that he has no problem with the ads since he doesn’t have to buy any of them. In fact, he prefers the ones that suit the character or fit in cleverly with the lyrics.One of his favorites is the Aston Martin that 007 drives in Goldfinger. The elegance of the car accords with the gentlemanly driver and captured everyone’s heart even if they couldn’t afford the car. The glamorous Chevrolet Camaro in Transformers also brought the old car brand back to life.According to Cai, the length of the ad or the size of the logo doesn’t decide the effect. Even a brief, subtle appearance can leave a lasting impression. In The Devil Wears Prada, the Prada dress only appears once on Meryl Streep, but it turns out to be the most striking ad in the whole movie.
