Imaginary world-building
Fantasy novels can be a ticket to a land of magic. The Lord of the Rings (《指环王》) by J.R.R. Tolkien takes us to Middle-earth to experience a battle of good and evil with dwarves (矮人), fairies (精灵) and wizards (巫师). And A Song of Ice and Fire (《冰与火之歌》), a series of novels by US author George R.R. Martin, invites us to another fictional world where powerful families compete to win the most important throne (王座) of all.Today, most people know Martin’s work by the name of the first book, Game of Thrones (《权力的游戏》), since it is also the name of the famous TV series. On March 29, the trailer (预告片) for the seventh season of the highly successful series came out. Millions of fans eagerly await the new season, which starts on July 16.So how can we explain the wild success of Game of Thrones?BBC reporter Ken Tucker got it right: it’s the escapism (逃避现实) that makes it a winner. This quality makes it very different from other popular TV series of recent times. Take Breaking Bad (《绝命毒师》) for example. This was a quality drama but it didn’t provide escapism. Too many viewers understood the difficult situation of the cancer-stricken (罹患癌症的) science teacher Walter White. He turned to crime (犯罪) because he couldn’t afford his hospital bills.In Game of Thrones, however, there is what TV writer Josue Cardona called the huge attraction of “world-building”: “The show is super complex (复杂的), with so many characters”. Viewers love the sense that they are being invited to build another world in their minds.This isn’t to say that the 25.7 million global viewers of the TV series don’t enjoy the more subtle (微妙的) side of the story. Unlike in other fiction stories, the characters are complex. Martin said that he tried to have a “good and bad, noble (高尚的) and selfish well-mixed” choice of them. This makes him a storyteller very unlike Tolkien, whose world is one of heroes and villains in which good will win in the end. In Martin’s world, we are not sure of that. Indeed, we aren’t even sure who is good and who is evil.But the overall secret to this show’s success may be its dreamlike quality. As Martin wrote on his website: “The best fantasy is written in the language of dreams. It is alive as dreams are alive, more real than real.” Watching Game of Thrones is like entering a deep sleep. Fans of the long-running hit will hope that they’ll be sleeping and dreaming for many years to come.
