Top 5 celebrity divorces in the first half of 2010
1. Kate Winslet & Sam MendesShortly after many actresses win the movie industry’s highest honor, their most important relationships fall apart in what has become known in Hollywood as the "Oscar curse." There is another example in accord with the curse. Oscar-winning couple Kate Winslet and her director husband Sam Mendes announced in March that they had separated after less than seven years of marriage. The marriage was the second for Winslet, 34, who won a best actress Oscar for her role in the 2008 Holocaust-themed movie "The Reader". She was divorced from her first husband, assistant director Jim Threapleton in 2001, after three years.2. Sandra Bullock & Jesse JamesNewly-crowned Oscar queen Sandra Bullock is no exception to other actresses falling victim to the “Oscar curse.” Sandra Bullock and Jesse James had finalized their divorce in June, putting an end to their five-year marriage. Jesse’s cheating and unfaithfulness is main reason behind the split. For Bullock, maybe it’s a miserable ending as well as a refreshing start.3. Gong Li & Ooi Hoe SengAccording to Gong’s manager, the actress had split from Singaporean tobacco tycoon Ooi Hoe Seng last year. Since her marriage to the 59-year-old tycoon in 1996, rumours about their divorce swirled around for years. Their divorce ends the enduring gossips, while stirring the public’s suspicion about Gong’s new relationship.4. Huang Yi & Jiang KaiSolid marriage usually relies on enduring affection and long-term company; while a flash marriage often results in a tragic ending due to lack of enough mutual understanding. Chinese actress Huang Yi and her husband Jiang Kai had just ended their less-than-a-year marriage. Huang ascribed the reason for the divorce to conflicting personalities, which is an excuse often used by those who suffer a failed-marriage.5. Charlene Choi & Ronald ChengAt a press briefing on March 27, Hong Kong actress Charlene Choi and singer Ronald Cheng announced their divorce ending their four-year marriage, which immediately hit the headlines and sparked off widespread astonishment. The public was kept in the dark about their secret marriage, which even escaped the sharp radar of the paparazzi. This unexpected news also sparked a credit crisis for Charlene who always impressed the public with her very girly image.
