Superman ‘Jay’ has lost his cape
Jay Chou began his career in music. After exploring other entertainment territories–acting, directing and TV production–Chou seems to reckon that going back to music is in his best interest. But does he still have it? Since his last album, Capricorn (《魔羯座》), released one-and-a-half years ago, Jay Chou hasn’t really left the limelight. But his work on recent films and TV shows, such as The Treasure Hunter (《刺陵》) and Pandamen (《熊猫人》), has drawn more criticism than applause.With his 10th album, New Era (《跨时代》), released this week, Chou’s making a comeback as a music man. However, he may have misjudged the climate of the industry.Superman Can’t Fly (《超人不会飞》), the first official single off the new album, debuted last month. But it didn’t seem to impress fans. In the song, Chou rattles through a 600-word set of lyrics written by himself. He pours out his private and personal feelings about his career and the entertainment industry. But some say it’s just another so-so track with unclear enunciation. Some listeners are asking, “Is he trying to tell people his story, or is he just murmuring to himself?”Just days ago, when another of the album’s singles, Fireworks Cool Easily (《烟花易冷》), came out, it suffered from the very same criticism. Chinese-style R&B songs like Chrysanthemum Terrace (《菊花台》) and Blue and White Porcelain (《青花瓷》) have always been a must-listen. And thanks to lyricist Vincent Fang (方文山), Chou’s love songs have been welcomed by fans and imitated by many other artists. But this time, the song has been criticized as “stereotypical”, “half Sa Dingding and half Painted Heart  (《画心》)”.All of this has made people wonder: Has Chou still got it?If we take a look back at Chou’s career since 2007, he has focused on making films. He’s made some good ones, like Secret (《不能说的秘密》), his debut as a director. But Chou didn’t stop there. He took part in a few more films, which later turned out to be “bad choices”. His position in music (maybe plus his huge ego) helped him to get into acting. But as an actor, he’s still a rookie, with average acting skills and plain looks.Over the last 10 years, Chou has been surrounded by a lot of success and honor–not to mention rumor and slander. Maybe he is past his time; or maybe he’s still a creative genius. Maybe it’s that listeners’ tastes are changing; or maybe it’s that Chou only wants to do what he really likes. When we think of Jay Chou nowadays, we see a “king”. But we’ll always remember him as a young man in a red hoodie with a big dream, singing “huh huh ha he”.
