Open minds wanted
Many moviegoers were drawn to the cinema to watch romantic comedy See You Tomorrow just for the name of its producer, Wong Kar-wai. But many found themselves *booing at the screen, expecting a typical high-end Wong hit yet leaving disappointed.It also seems that the movie’s star Tony Leung – awarded Best Actor at the Cannes Film Festival, seven-time winner of the Hong Kong Film Award and three-time winner of the Golden Horse Film Awards – didn’t live up to fans’ high expectations either.In this *slapstick comedy, Leung plays owner of the bar See You Tomorrow, and is known as the perfect “ferryman”, someone who helps people who are drowning in sorrow after their relationships break up. He and his partner Guan Chun (Takeshi Kaneshiro) take the offer of Xiao Yu (Angelababy) to help buck up her childhood idol Ma Li (Eason Chan) after his singing career collapses.Although it may not be a traditional “Wong Kar-wai and Tony Leung” style, See You Tomorrow deserves the scoring of an *eligible comedy. It makes audiences laugh and also provokes thoughts.Many scenes have viewers *in stitches. For example, Guan’s *pompous expression when he’s pretending to enjoy his dream girl Mao Mao’s horrendous cooking is a *hilarious standout. And the tales of regret played by the protagonists strike a chord with people who have tasted the feeling of heartbreak after a relationship ends. Xiao Yu sacrifices everything but doesn’t live with her sweetheart happily ever after. Chen and Guan might be experts to “ferry” people away from sadness, but they eventually fail to ferry themselves.Some consider the *exaggerated performances in the film embarrassing, but humour is just one step away from embarrassment. Different people have different standards.The film is indeed “a Wong Kar-wai” in many aspects, including its nostalgic sepia tone, brightly-*saturated colors and the occasional *narrative provided by a voiceover. A noteworthy problem might be that writer and director Zhang Jiajia’s “chicken soup for the soul” doesn’t seem to work harmoniously with Wong’s stylish images.“I’m a person who can’t see my own tomorrow, but I hope everyone else has a future,” the film’s narrator says.“The safest distance between each other is 122 centimeters. You pull out all the stops to shorten this distance when you are with a loved one.”So is See You Tomorrow worth its ticket price? This depends on your expectations, but those who go with an open mind shouldn’t be disappointed.
