Enduring talent
When Li Yuchun emerged as the winner of Hunan TV’s Supergirl (《超级女声》) singing contest back in 2005, few people–not even many of her fans – imagined Li would rise to A-list stardom. After all, the then 21-year-old student from Sichuan was just one of a long line of TV talent show winners. Most of them end up being just transient figures, fading in and out of the pop culture spotlight.But Li beat the odds. After 11 years, she’s turned into a record-setting singer – her new album Growing Wild (《野蛮生长》) sold more than 3 million electronic copies on QQ music, and that’s only within 16 days of its release.Beyond showbiz, Li is a fixture on the fashion scene. Her upcoming Growing Wild tour features costumes designed by Alexander Wang. She previously collaborated with luxury designers, including Karl Lagerfeld, Jeremy Scott and Givenchy’s Riccardo Tisci.“She’s very daring. She took a lot of fashion risks,” said Wang in a recent video posted to Instagram. Janelle Okwodu of Vogue magazine also commented that Li is not afraid to mix masculine and feminine styles in her wardrobe.That masculinity once made her controversial among the Chinese public. However, she has used the attention to her advantage, highlighting her masculine flair to boost her status in the fashion industry. Publicly, her philosophy seems to be to keep a down-to-earth attitude and not pay too much attention to her critics.Even if you’re not a fan, you have to admit that she’s one of the few musicians who dares to challenge herself and never rests on her existing fame. Acting, for instance, has never been her strong suit, but she has thrown herself into the business with sincerity and verve. She knows how to answer criticism with action. Over the years, she’s established herself as sensible, polite and emotionally intelligent person, wrote entertainment journalist Luo Beibei on Tencent.These qualities were on full display when she attended the 2016 QQ Music Awards on March 23. The organizer mistakenly called Li “a male singer”. Instead of reacting with anger, Li gracefully took to the stage and received her award before performing two songs as planned.But she isn’t a pushover either. After the award ceremony, Li expressed her disappointment, saying that the errors concerning herself and other musicians were not acceptable. “We need more good musicians, and they deserve a better performing environment,” she said.Her handling of that awkward moment onstage won her praise from viewers. One fan wrote on Zhihu.com that, “with her high emotional intelligence, you feel that Li deserves your love. She inspires people with her actions and shows that an independent and virtuous woman can shrug off misunderstandings and succeed on her own.
