Secrets sleep beneath the snow
True Detective and Breaking Bad are the most recent examples of television shows that remind us there is a need for storytelling that aims a bit higher with its intentions. In Breaking Bad we watch as a humble underdog transforms into a truly despicable evil, and in True Detective we watch as an entire region is folded into a criminal darkness. These are shows that invite the audience to read below the surface, as that’s where their most compelling thematic material takes form.Fargo, which plays out in the same snow-swept universe as Joel and Ethan Coen’s excellent movie of the same name, is the latest television show to attempt to set the storytelling bar higher. And while the show more than succeeds at being entertaining, it never quite reaches the same highs as its spiritual predecessor.The story revolves around Lester Nygaard (Martin Freeman), a clumsy sad sack who’s spent his entire life turning the other cheek not in bravery, but in cowardice. His wife hates him, his brother is embarrassed of him, and he still can’t manage to stand up to the man who has been bullying him since high school. That is until a chance encounter with the mysterious contract killer Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton) emboldens Nygaard to take charge of his life. “Your problem is you spent your whole life thinking there are rules — there aren’t,” Malvo tells Nygaard.Some men can’t function properly without rules though, and in a feverish fit of pride, Nygaard hammers his wife to death. Nygaard’s actions invite an investigation by Deputy Solverson (Allison Tolman), the only detective on the police force smart enough to see a connection between the meek Nygaard and the maniacal Malvo. From there, the story branches off into various subplots.Fargo is a show about individuals and how they cope with their stations in life. Nygaard is stuck at the bottom, but in truth, that’s the place he’s earned. Solverson is stuck underneath an incompetent police chief who willfully denies her genius. Malvo, on the other hand, has completely abandoned his station altogether, choosing to write his own rules wherever he goes.Fargo is the kind of story you’d expect to unfold in a world created by the Coen Brothers (both of whom serve as executive producers on the show). And while it’s not the next great television show, it’s certainly a thrilling watch.
