Most romantic in English literature
Britons have chosen a line from Emily Bronte’s novel "Wuthering Heights" as the most romantic in English literature.A poll of 2,000 adults commissioned by Warner Home Video to mark the DVD release of the romantic comedy "Going the Distance" showed 20 percent of respondents chose the line: "whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same."Fictional character Catherine Earnshaw’s comment on her love for Heathcliff was followed by Winnie-The-Pooh, the fictional bear created by English writer AA Milne: "If you live to be 100, I hope I live to be 100 minus one day, so I never have to live without you."England’s most famous playwright, William Shakespeare, came third with a line from his play "Romeo and Juliet": "But soft! What light through yonder window breaks? It is the east and Juliet is the sun."A list of quotes and their ranking by respondents follows:1. "Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same" - Emily Bronte2."If you live to be a hundred, I want to live to be a hundred minus one day so I never have to live without you" - A A Milne3."But soft! What light through yonder window breaks? It is the east and Juliet is the sun" - Shakespeare "Romeo and Juliet"4. "He was my North, my South, my East and West, My working week and my Sunday rest, My noon, my midnight, my talk, my song; I thought that love would last forever: I was wrong" - W.H. Auden5. "You know you’re in love when you don’t want to fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams" - Dr. Seuss6. "When you fall in love, it is a temporary madness. It erupts like an earthquake, and then it subsides. And when it subsides, you have to make a decision. You have to work out whether your roots are become so entwined together that it is inconceivable that you should ever part" - "Captain Corelli’s Mandolin"7."Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be" - Robert Browning8."For you see, each day I love you more. Today more than yesterday and less than tomorrow" - Rosemonde Gerard9."But to see her was to love her, love but her, and love her forever" - Robert Burns10."I hope before long to press you in my arms and shall shower on you a million burning kisses as under the Equator" - Napoleon Bonaparte’s 1796 dispatch to wife Josephine
