Will Zeng be the next William Hung?
In 2004, a Chinese-American named William Hung became famous after a performance on the hot US TV show American Idol. On the show, the 22-year-old college student performed a fast, sexy Ricky Martin song named "SheBangs". He was tone-deaf and not a very good dancer, but his horrible performance actually made him quite popular. He later produced an album, titled Inspiration, which sold more than 300,000 copies.In this year’s Happy Girls competition, the out-of-tune Zeng Yike has won similar support from fans. Of course, the other contestants don’t approve of her style. And some viewers can’t wait until she is finally kicked off the show. But many have rallied to her side, calling her an "angel".Controversial topics about Zeng Yike:1. Sheep voiceZeng has a very special voice that sounds similar to Lin Zhiling’s baby voice. Netizens call Zeng’s a "sheep voice". Its special sound has given her a distinct style.2. Tino quits On June 18’s Top 20 match, judges Tino and Shen Lihui had differing opinions on whether Zeng should be kicked off the show. After their debate, Tino quit in anger, claiming that he’ll leave the Happy Girls show. "How can a contestant who is out of tune be allowed to continue on the show?" he said after the show.3. Judges questioned for being partial to herOn June 26’s Happy Girls show, Zeng’s out-of-tune performance received praise from the judges. "It is the freshest work I’ve ever heard these years", said one judge. "Her sincerity and  simplicity moved me," said another. Netizens also noticed that emcee He Jiong seemed to show Zeng favoritism, saying at different times during the show, "Do you need a chair?", "Fix the microphone well", and "I’ll stand nearby. If you have any questions, I’ll help you".4. Comes under fire for ’plagiarism’An anonymous netizen said that the so-called original work Zeng performed in the competition was copied from mainland singer Xu Gao’s song "Xing Zuo Shu Shang". "Leo and Xing Zuo Shu Shang do have some similarities. But I swear I did not plagiarize anyone’s works. Leo is my original work," said Zeng.On the other hand, Zeng’s special writing style as well as her astonishing inotation has arouse a hot discussion on "individuality" and "level".Just like Shen Lihui said, it’s true that she has inspired many viewers. But her art of singing cannot be judged by normal standards. At a time when the public are getting tired of talent-search shows, perhaps producers think she can spice things up. But, in fact, all the praise directed at her is implausible.Recently, some of Zeng’s old singing videos have been uncovered. They have shocked many people. But HNTV doesn’t seem to care. Instead, they are only concerned with their ratings. Fans of Zeng, meanwhile, continue to show their support. We will have to wait and see how far Zeng will go. Kong Qingxiang is out of date now.
