Swift changes
Clearly Taylor Swift aspires to be more than just another country star. And thus far, her reinvention of herself as a pop star is going quite well.First, let’s take a look at how the 24-year-old singer has been rebranding herself. In March, she moved from Nashville, Tennessee, the center of American country music, to New York City. Since then, intentionally or not, Swift’s social circle has been filled with more “cool people”. Her roommate? Supermodel Karlie Kloss. New best friend? Lena Dunham, creator and star of HBO’s hit series Girls, aka “the voice of a generation”.、Of course, Swift’s new lifestyle is reflected in her music. In August, with the release of Shake It Off, the first single from her forthcoming fifth album 1989, out on Oct 27, Swift announced she’d take a break from country music to produce her first pop album.During a live video stream on Yahoo.com in August, Swift said that in the two years since she released Red, her last album, she grew and changed in a way that made it necessary for her to change her style of music.Based on the first two released songs —the second single Out of the Woods was released two weeks ago — the country superstar is striding into pop with the same degree of effortlessness as her recent image change in magazines and on red carpets.Whenever Swift releases new music, the public seems to be obsessed with the question of whether the song makes reference to a past relationship. So here comes another big change on her new album: for the first time in years, there are no diss tracks dishing about Swift’s ex-boyfriends. In the cover story of Rolling Stone magazine’s September issue, Swift reveals that a few of the songs on the album are about her relationships and love life, but they’re mostly wistful and nostalgic, not finger-pointy or score-settling.If what she said is true, I’d like to think of this as the biggest surprise to come out of her transition, compared to veering sharply from her earlier country sound. Although it’s natural for musicians to deal with their emotions by writing about them, Swift’s new sensible and balanced approach is a sign of her maturing into a real star.To that extent, Swift just keeps getting more interesting.
