‘Divergent’ stands alone
The Hunger Games saga is still running and already we have a successor — a franchise starring a tough heroine in a dystopian future that is targeted at young adult audiences.Divergent, the first installment in the film adaptation of US young adult novelist Veronica Roth’s best-selling trilogy, is set in a futuristic Chicago. The population is divided into five factions: Abnegation, Amity, Erudite, Candor and Dauntless. If someone doesn’t fall into any of those categories, they are marginalized and left homeless.Our 16-year-old protagonist Beatrice Prior (played by Shailene Woodley), or “Tris”, finds herself labeled as a “divergent”, meaning she has strengths in more than one area and is a threat to those in power. After arbitrarily choosing to enter the “Dauntless” clan, she begins training to prove she’s good enough to be among the elite.Much of the film focuses on Tris’ training, both physically and mentally. The training challenges her to face and surmount her fears. The movie feels a bit slow at times, and the first installment spends too much time on world building rather than offering a real first adventure for our heroes, which is frustrating.The only upside to this might be that we got to enjoy a terrific lead performance from Shailene Woodley. In Divergent, Woodley transforms from the sweet, girl-next-door from films like The Descendants and The Fault in Our Stars into a smart, plucky heroine akin to Jennifer Lawrence’s Katniss Everdeen.In the end, the film works as a metaphor for today’s competitive job market and education system. It’s about identity, finding out who you are, and discovering how you fit into society as you grow from an adolescent into an adult.Divergent is a fun ride that doesn’t ask much of its audience, but doesn’t reward viewers with much either. It’s not The Hunger Games, which has harder edges and elements of sadism, and it really doesn’t need to be. As the next great fantasy trilogy, Divergent offers enough to stand on its own as an independent franchise, and as many believe, may offer more and more in future installments.
