Puth’s time has arrived
You may not be familiar with the name Charlie Puth, but his song “See You Again” featuring American rapper Wiz Khalifa has recently become a huge hit internationally. The “Furious 7” Paul Walker tribute topped the Billboard Hot 100 in the US and UK. And it has broken several industry records, including becoming the most-streamed track in a day and week on Spotify.The popularity of the song also helped boost the professional career of this fresh star who was mostly unknown just a few months ago. On May 1 the 23-year-old US singer-songwriter released his first EP, “Some Type of Love”.Puth first arrived on listeners’ radar through YouTube, where he posted his own acoustic covers of hit songs. His reinterpretation of Adele’s “Someone Like You” got him signed to talk show star Ellen DeGeneres’ music label. In 2012, Puth appeared on Ellen twice, performing Lady Antebellum’s “Need You Now” and a self-written song called “Break Again”.Although the exposure didn’t really push him forward into the mainstream music business, it shot the young man’s YouTube subscribers up. Puth considered it a “wonderful experience” mostly because it helped him plot out a clear direction. “One of the best things from it is that it actually inspired me to write more music for myself,” Puth said in an interview with Billboard.Puth graduated from the prestigious Berklee College of Music in 2013. With a wide vocal range, exquisite piano skills and creative songwriting, all he needed was an opportunity to shine.When Mike Caren, Warner Music Group’s worldwide head of A&R was looking for a talent to write a memorial song for Walker, Puth saw the opportunity of a lifetime. Caren commissioned over 100 musicians to write music for the “Furious 7” soundtrack and signed Puth shortly after he heard Puth’s chorus. “We were looking for melody, lyrics, beats and musicality, and ‘See You Again’ had all those things in spades,” said Caren.Though Puth had never met Walker, he drew inspiration from his own life. “I had experienced a loss very similar to Paul, where a friend passed away in a car accident. The first words out of my mouth were, ‘It’s been a long day’,” recalled Puth to Billboard.Puth describes his music as “soulful pop”, and “See You Again” stands out as a perfect representation of music that reaches out to listeners’ hearts.Puth is currently scheduled to tour with US singer Meghan Trainor and also work on a yet-unnamed CD in 2015, according to the New York Post. A future star is rising.
