Noriko Sakai missing
Japanese actor Manabu Oshio has been arrested on suspicion of using drugs. It came as pop singer Noriko Sakai’s husband, surfer Yuichi Takaso, was also arrested on a drugs charge. Sakai has been missing for over 24 hours, her mother told local media on August 4. A missing person’s report has been filed with the police. Rumors on the Internet say that Sakai may have committed suicide.Takaso was arrested early Monday after the police said they found a plastic bag containing drugs in his underwear. He later told investigators the drugs were for his personal use, according to the local police department . A search was going on at his home as we filed this report.Sakai and her 10-year-old son have not been seen, nor has she responded to repeated phone calls and e-mails since police found her husband late Sunday, said Masahisa Aizawa, president of management agency Sun Music. An Internet post claiming that police have found a dead woman who looks like Sakai near Mashuuko, Hokkaido, is causing intense online discussion. However, the Metropolitan Police Department has issued no statement about the rumors..Some suggest that Sakai may just be in shock at her husbands’ arrest and lying low for a while. The police are still looking for her.Sakai and Takaso were married in late 1998. However, Takaso’s many love affairs soon troubled the marriage.In recent years, many entertainers in both the Republic of Korea and Japan have committed suicide. Unlike other female actors, Sakai, rather than stopping work after her marriage, continued her career. It is said that her income makes a large contribution to the family budget.Recently it was reported that in March Sakai had signed with a new company and was confident about the future.It is said that this May or June, the couple had a intense quarrel. It seemed Sakai wanted a divorce, claiming that she and her husband "could not live with each other any longer". Takaso later moved to the couple’s seaside villa near Chiba. It seemed likely that the marriage was unsaveable.After her daughter-in-law’s disappearance Sakai’s mother-in-law turned to the police for help, reported Japanese media. She stressed: "Living in a broken marriage, she hankers after warmth and security.Despite the fact that her husband’s to blame for the crisis in the marriage, she always takes responsibility. I just hope she won’t do anything stupid."Her ad for Tokyo is still being broadcast on TV. But with her husband’s arrest, Toyota may think again about whether its wants to be associated with the troubled couple any longer.
