Patriotism goes to Hollywood
the much-anticipated film The Founding of a Republic (建国大业) will be a little like stepping into an elevator crammed with people. And, mind you, these aren’t just ordinary people, but big-time celebrities.More than 170 actors, singers, directors, models and artists all put in appearances, including Jacky Chan, Andy Lau, Zhang Ziyi and Jet Li.On first thought, this is a sure-fire way to boost box office sales, which have always tended to lag on patriotic films. But it’s likely not a formula that will last the test of time. First of all, most of these actors are working for free – how often is that going to happen again?Second, seeing Jet Li or Zhang Ziyi for all of 90 seconds isn’t going to bring in many fans who want to see them for 90 minutes.So, then, where should directors of future patriotic films look for inspiration? To Hollywood, of course – but with a wary eye. The Patriot, a story that takes place during the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783), raised leading actor Mel Gibson’s popularity and promoted the myth of individualistic heroism. Like a lot of historical movies, it was criticized for its inaccuracy. But that didn’t seem to bother the millions who showed up to bask in its idealism.The 1996 film Independence Day, as it turns out, had nothing to do with history, but it was also a great commercial success: It became the highest-grossing film in the US that year.If you’re sensing a theme here, it is that patriotic films need not be accurate or even historical to win the heart – and the wallets – of filmgoers. They simply need to make audience members feel good. And throwing a bunch of stars on the screen doesn’t always do that.Take Pearl Harbor, for example. True, there was lots of action, but the silly love triangle between Ben Affleck, Josh Harnett and Kate Beckinsale distracted from the focus of the film. "[It] required a lot of patience for an audience to sit through the dithering," Time magazine’s Richard Schickel wrote.The big names don’t hurt, of course, but they are not enough. The Josh Hartnetts and Zhang Ziyis of the acting world need to be accompanied by timeless themes – not tired cliches.Han Sanping, director of The Founding of a Republic, thinks patriotic Chinese films should take the tastes of today’s viewers into consideration. "The Chinese patriotic films with a socialist theme were so monotonous and stereotypical," Han said recently during an interview with sina.com.cn. "It would be hard for them to attract people anymore, especially for the post-80s and 90s generation." 
