Want a creepy kick? Check into a deadly hotel
For seekers of creepy kicks, there’s nothing quite like a bona fide gruesome death site. Hotels are primo spots for dubious deeds—including big-time murders, overdoses, and suicides. So here’s our list of 12 inns that hosted famous passings.1. Chelsea Hotel, New York CityThe Chelsea Hotel is best known as the place where Sid Vicious killed his girlfriend, Nancy Spungen. Vicious was the former bass player for English punk band the Sex Pistols. On October 12, 1978, Spungen was found dead on the bathroom floor with a single knife wound in her abdomen, while Vicious walked the halls, muttering. Vicious died of a heroin overdose before he could go to trial, and rumors of a shared suicide pact continue to this day.2. Lizzie Borden Bed & Breakfast, Fall River, MassachusettsAfter a breakfast of bananas and johnnycakes and a stroll in town, return home to receive 40 whacks with an ax. This was the nature of Andrew Borden’s last day on earth. Borden was murdered on August 4, 1892, along with his second wife. Suspicion has always fallen on their daughter Lizzie, though she was tried and found not guilty.3. L’hôtel, ParisThese days, the L’Hôtel was a small hotel on Paris’s Left Bank. However, when Oscar Wilde died on November 30, 1900, everything had changed. But Wilde’s last days in room 16 are shrouded in mystery. Did he die of syphilis, or cerebral meningitis resulting from an ear infection? One thing is clear: The hotel’s decor was not up to the aesthete’s standards. His last words are reputed to be, "My wallpaper and I are fighting a duel to the death. One or other of us has got to go." The hotel has transformed itself, meanwhile, into one of the most praised boutique hotels on the planet.4. Cecil Hotel, Los AngelesThe body of missing UBC student Elisa Lam was found in the Cecil Hotel’s rooftop water tank on February 19.The hotel is famous for its hosting a ghoulish assortment of losers and killers, including "Night Stalker" Richard Ramirez and Austrian journalist-cum-murderer Jack Unterweger. Ramirez, who was found guilty of 14 murders in the 1980s, stayed on the 14th floor for several months in 1985. And Unterweger, a writer and prostitute-killer, also used the hotel as a base to pick up at least three prostitutes who were later found murdered.In 1962, a woman named Pauline Otten jumped out a window and killed a pedestrian, as well as herself, in her fall; there was another victim, Goldie Osgood, who was found strangled in her Cecil room in 1964.5. Beau Rivage, GenevaOn September 10, 1898,Empress Elizabeth of Austria was leaving the Beau Rivage Hotel to catch a boat on Lake Geneva when Italian anarchist Luigi Lucheni repeatedly stabbed her with a file that penetrated her heart and lungs. When aid was administered, the empress did not allow her corset to be undone until she had reached the relative privacy of the boat; when the stays came off, she was revealed to be bleeding to death.On October 11, 1987, the prominent German politician Uwe Barschel was found dead, fully dressed in a bathtub full of water following an overdose of prescription drugs.6. Highland Gardens Hotel, Los AngelesOn October 4, 1970, American singer-songwriter Janis Joplin died of an alcohol-and-heroin overdose in Highland Gardens Hotel. She keeled over from her bed into an end table. When people found her body the next day, change from the lobby’s cigarette machine was still in her fist.
