Singles search for true love
Valentine’s Day is almost here: a time of year when some of us enjoy the company with a loved one, while others feel desperate being alone. But to think about the meaning of love is one thing that brings all of us together.We’ve all been touched by love, but no one really understands it, nor can anyone explain why we do the things we do when we are in love.If you agree, then discover more in Love, the romantic comedy that is released this Valentine’s Day.The film is directed by Doze Niu, whose 2010 film Monga received both good box office and criticism. But different from Monga, Love is a light-hearted, warm film, which tells a story that happened in two cities–Beijing and Taipei. It’s about eight lonely people searching for love. All that happens and every sacrifice that is made is all for love.Even before the film was shot, its superstar cast made headlines. The film brings together several hot Chinese actors and actresses, including Eddie Peng, Ethan Juan, Fanny Shu and Zhao Wei.In the film, they play couples who embody in a fresh way the happiness, anger, grief and joy that people have when they are in love.If you know something about Niu, you may have heard that he is a director who loves acting. In Love, Niu plays one of the main characters and his character develops a romance with Fanny Shu.According to Niu, the film is inspired by a real story of himself being dumped. “It was awful when a woman you love is in love with someone else,” Niu said in the film premiere.“But when I saw that guy, it suddenly dawned on me that, if you really love someone, you want nothing but her happiness.”Niu said by watching the film, he wanted the audience to be touched by the characters’ desire to find true love. But more importantly, he wanted people to understand more of what love is.“True love, under any condition, is supposed to make you happy,” Niu said. “No matter it’s getting over somebody, or wishing that somebody well, or forgiving him/her.”
