Puzzler problems
During the fifth episode of the most recent season of “House of Cards”, President Underwood immersed himself in a beautiful mobile game. You may wonder what this colorful creation was. Well, it’s the puzzle game “Monument Valley”.Just five hours after its appearance on the hot TV series, the game’s sales began to spike, according to App Figures, an organization that tracks app sales.The app, first released in last April, has won many awards, including taking the best overall game prize at the 11th International Mobile Gaming Awards held in San Francisco, US, and also three accolades at the Game Developers Choice Awards last month, including Best Visual Art, Innovation, and Best Mobile Game.The rules of the game are simple. You play as a silent princess named Ida. All you need to do is explore the three-dimensional world through touching where you want to go. But the challenge is you can’t trust your eyes. Many times you will feel stuck in one place, but suddenly after you move one object, the path will be revealed to you.More than that, the joy of playing the game comes from its visual design. It builds on concepts from the art of Dutch graphic artist MC Escher, Japanese woodblock prints and temple architecture from around the world, according to cnet.com, a technology news website. Filled with colorful objects, everything appears to pop out of the screen. But no two stages are alike, even within the same world.“Every screenshot looks like a little work of art, and seeing how pieces of the levels move is a treat all on its own,” wrote Shaun Musgrave, an editor of gaming website toucharcade.com.Its eerie soundtrack also wins fans’ hearts. As the gaming website polygon.com commented: “Every interaction you have with the screen is enhanced with a musical sound effect – rotating blocks sound like a wind-up music box, gears like the strings of an acoustic guitar – all adding to the relaxed atmosphere.”Its success revealed that “there was still a place for beautifully-crafted mobile games on the app stores,” said The Guardian.Ken Wong, the lead designer of the game, believes developers should be true to their games. “Don’t listen to all these marketing, monetization people. Just make the game how you want to make it,” he told polygon.com.
