New shows to heat up
Comedy can be breezy, easy and sometimes, well, cheesy. The attraction of comedy lies in its casual style, the quick wit and the sense of humor tailored to a foreign culture. The following fresh picks cover the themes of romance, family, girlfriends, and even the police.Brooklyn Nine-NineWhen: Tuesdays on FoxPremiere: Sept 17, 2013This is a cop comedy in which Andy Samberg plays the goony but gifted detective Jake Peralta. Detective Peralta is gifted enough that he’s never had to work too hard or follow the rules too closely. Perhaps because he has the best arrest record among his colleagues, he’s been enabled - if not indulged - throughout his entire career.That is, until the precinct gets a new commanding officer, Captain Ray Holt (Andre Braugher). Captain Holt believes in rules and regulations, two concepts that have long been overlooked by the detectives in the 99th precinct.Jake’s colleagues are a brilliant and capable bunch, but lack a certain level of discipline and leadership. They compete with each other, annoy each other, gossip and flirt, but at the end of the day, they have each other’s backs covered.The Michael J Fox ShowWhen: Thursdays on NBCPremiere: Sept 26, 2013One of New York’s most beloved news anchors, Mike Henry (Michael J Fox), put his career on hold to spend more time with his family and focus on his health after he was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease. But now, five years later, with the kids growing up and Mike growing restless, it just might be time for him to get back to work. After many failed attempts, Mike’s family, anxious to get him out of the house, finally succeed in moving him back to his own home to keep juggling family and career, just like in the old days.The Mindy ProjectWhen: Tuesdays on FoxPremiere: Sept 17, 2013This is the only “old” show, starting its second season this fall, on our recommendation list. The series follows a skilled doctor trying to balance both her personal and professional life. Dr Mindy Lahiri (Mindy Kaling) is a talented obstetrician with a hectic personal life, who struggles to find the right guy, the right outfit and the right attitude. Mindy shares a practice with two doctors, neither of whom make life any easier for her. Dr Danny Castellano (Chris Messina) is a hothead and a guy who criticizes her for everything, including her struggling love life and her lack of professionalism. In contrast, Dr Jeremy Reed (Ed Weeks) is the walking definition of bad news. Having traveled to Haiti at the end of season one, Mindy returns from her volunteer mission hoping to save the practice from disarray, only to find that the office has gotten along just fine without her.Super Fun NightWhen: Wednesdays on ABCPremiere: Oct 2, 2013Junior attorney Kimmie Boubier (Rebel Wilson) and her two best friends Helen-Alice and Marika have had a standing date every Friday night for the last 13 years. They even have a motto for what they call “Friday Night Fun Night: Always together! Always Inside!” However, Kimmie’s recent promotion changes everything. She meets a dashingly handsome British attorney, Richard Lovell (Kevin Bishop), who invites her to a party at a trendy club. Determined to spend time with Richard and to be more aggressive in pursuing a better career, Kimmie sets out to convince her friends to take Super Fun Night on the road.
