Travel solo: leave the baggage behind
Rucksack packed to bursting point? Check. Trusty guidebook? Check. No family, friend, loved one or passing acquaintance to board the plane with? Check.Young people are grabbing their passports and trekking off around the world on their own, not because they have no one to travel with, but because they prefer to go solo.Kristina Wegscheider, from San Jose in California, US, first traveled unaccompanied when she was at college and believes that it is something everyone should do at least once in their life.“It opens up your mind to new things and pushes you out of your comfort zone,” said the 28-year-old, who works in human resources for a technology company.“In high school I wouldn’t have felt comfortable doing much of anything on my own, but as I have gotten older I’ve found that I love traveling on my own, especially in a country where I don’t know the language.” Wegscheider has visited 46 countries spanning all seven continents.Foreign lands can be tricky to navigate at the best of times. But with no one to help you read a map, look after you if you get ill, or lend you money if your wallet is stolen, they are challenging.This is what drives young people to go solo. It is seen as character building and a chance to prove that they can make it on their own.Chris Richardson decided to leave his sales job in Australia to go backpacking last year.He set up a website, The Aussie Nomad, to document his adventures. He says he wished he had gone solo earlier.“Be it the people you meet, the places you visit, or the things you do, everything is off your own back and it forces you to grow as a person,” said the 30-year-old.“To tackle university or a job with that kind of experience would have been a major bonus to me,” he said.Richardson describes traveling alone as like “a shot in the arm”, which “unleashed a better more confident person that was ready to tackle anything”.He said: “The feeling of having conquered something on my own is a major part of what drives me each day when I’m tackling a difficult task.“I walk around with my head up because I know deep down inside that nothing is impossible if you try.”Explorers such as Christopher Colombus, who discovered the Americas, and Amelia Earhart, the first person to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean, have paved the way for those wanting to explore foreign lands.Detailed guidebooks, mobiles that can convert foreign signs into your mother tongue, and insurance companies that can rescue you if need be, have also made venturing into the unknown easier.One of the greatest concerns of young people who are considering traveling abroad unaccompanied is that they’ll be lonely.Advances in communications technology mean that you no longer need to wait two months to receive a letter from home, but nothing can fill an empty space by your side.Yet, young people are also fascinated by loneliness. Perhaps it is because they have grown up in a world where you are always contactable, and want to know what it’s like to be cut off. Or, perhaps it’s because they believe that only by being without distractions can you truly experience the world around you.The great 19th century explorer John Muir once said: “Only by going alone in silence, without baggage, can one truly get into the heart of the wilderness. All other travel is mere dust and hotels and baggage and chatter.”
