Death of a muse
In an Oslo hospital, at age 81, Marianne Ihlen slipped out of existence. Her fight with *leukemia had ended. Her friends were assembled around her, there to bid her farewell as she passed on. One of them took her hand and hummed a little tune: Bird on the Wire.It was one of the songs Ihlen herself had inspired. The Norwegian woman had led an *eclectic life – as an oil industry worker, a production assistant on a film and an artist’s model – but no job ever surpassed the role she played in the history of song and prose. Ihlen is best remembered as the *muse who stoked the passions of, not one, but two internationally renowned writers.It was the Greeks who first invented the idea of muses: mythic goddesses, beautiful and *serene, who could fill artists with divine inspiration. Relatively little is known about each one – scholars aren’t even sure exactly how many muses there were – but many of the men who invoked them have become famous. Among them are classic writers like Homer and Virgil, and later masters like Dante and Shakespeare.Like the muses of old, Ihlen too was *outshined by the men in her life. She was in her early 20s when she married a struggling Norwegian writer named Axel Jensen. It wasn’t long before Jensen had published a hit novel, Line, and Ihlen bore their son. But with the joys came eventual heartbreak: Jensen had found a new lover and left Ihlen, alone with an infant at age 25.That, according to *biographer Kari Hesthamar, opened the door for Ihlen to fall for Canadian poet and folk singer Leonard Cohen. He rivaled American singer Bob Dylan in popularity, and his lyrics were infused with the political *angst and sexual liberation that gripped the West in the 1960s.Their romance started on the Greek island of Hydra, where Cohen found her after her breakup. She became the *namesake for the song So Long, Marianne, and her *prodding led Cohen to write Bird on the Wire. When Cohen released his second album, he put Ihlen’s photo right on the back cover.US musician Paul Simon had Kathleen Chitty, Bob Dylan had Suze Rotolo and Cohen had Ihlen. These women were *immortalized as the muses of great singer-songwriters, becoming romantic icons for a generation of music fans. Yet, they’re also enduring symbols of a gender divide in music.The best-known female muses are *elevated to impossible standards by the men who adore them. But female musicians today are best known for the intense *ire they bear toward some of their muses. From Carly Simon and her 1972 hit You’re So Vain, to Taylor Swift and the songs she uses to *skewer her exes, music has been a way for women to express anger and frustration at the men.Ihlen’s passing on July 29 marked the end of one musical love story, but muses will continue to materialize well into the future, each one reflecting the ideals and tensions of their generation.
