Clever new concept
The past few weeks must have been hard for fans of US TV series, because most shows took a long holiday break. But as we’ve entered 2014, not only can we continue following the series we’ve loved for years, we can also look forward to a few new series starting mid-season.Intelligence, the latest offering from CBS, stands out among the first new network series of 2014. According to Nielson ratings, the premiere on Jan 7 attracted 16.6 million viewers in the US, making it the most-watched premiere of a new series during the current television season.Why did it get off to a great start?First, it brings novelty. The show is filled with high-tech gimmickry, led by a dazzling effect that allows our hero to stroll through a 3-D version of his own imaginings.Still, originality isn’t everything. A good cast and a good design are also indispensable for a weekly escape. Much of the credit for its entertainment potential goes to actor Josh Holloway, the former Lost star.In Intelligence, Holloway plays Gabriel, a war-hero-turned super-soldier. Thanks to a microchip implant, he can hack into almost anything with an electric brain. He and his chip are extremely valuable government property. So valuable, the head of the elite secret agency that employs him recruits a Secret Service agent to protect him.And the show’s visual signature comes much from Gabriel’s power. For example, he’s able to walk through an image created by everything his computer chip can gather and his mind can imagine. While we’re wowed by his ability — and the writer’s creativity — we may also be a little worried whether his powers will lead to writer laziness. Gabriel’s trapped in a corner? Let the chip get him out of it.Still, after the first two episodes, the gimmick holds up — and the budding relationships should be able to keep the show going when the novelty wears off.Intelligence may not be the most exciting show the new year will bring, but it is the kind of weekly adventure/mystery CBS does well — one that tells you what it is up front and is smart enough to deliver on most of what it promises.
