Time to celebrate
EVERYONE knows that the CCTV Spring Festival Gala has long dominated Chinese New Year’s Eve. Even now, as some people go looking around for alternatives for that night, the folks at CCTV are working hard to make this annual celebration more attractive. So, what have they come up with to surprise us? Let’s take a peek at this year’s highlights. Faye Wong’s comebackFor more than four years Wong was "lying low", making hardly any public appearances. Earlier, she made a comeback, singing You Lan Cao, the theme for the film Confucius. Now she’s comfirming with a performance at this year’s CCTV Gala.  This time, she’s brought a solo performance, singing Legend , originally done by singer Li Jian, who’s a good friend of hers. According to Li, they admire each other’s music and Wong chose the song herself. It’s rumored that Wong will give 10 concerts later this year in Beijing and Shanghai. No matter what, one thing’s for sure: She’s back! Little Tigers’ reunion There’s no better time for The Little Tigers to reunite than the Year of the Tiger. It’s been 22 years since they made their debut. And this will be the first time in about 15 years for them to perform together. Oh, sure, it seems the "tigers" are already in their late 30s and that will no doubt be nostalgic for the post-70s. But will the post-90s buy it? A Baidu.com comment shows that many of these people are more familiar with the three members individually than with the group. Rumor has it that the three of them will make a comeback tour later this year. Zhao Benshan leaves his sick bedEvery year, Zhao is one major reason so many people stay tuned to the Gala. But, given the state of his health since last year, Zhao’s appearance at this year’s Gala is surprising, and people are looking forward to it. And, he’s bringing his apprentice, Xiao Shenyang, to join him in an "upgraded" version of Donation. There was a script change, because Xiao Shenyang was added at the last minute. Time for a miracle Last year, people got familiar with Louis Liu, a Taiwanese magician, who got nine magical minutes of the Gala time. And, thanks to him, China was hit with a magic phase. Then, in the second half of last year, people seemed to be feeling fatigued by the excessive number of his appearances on national and local TV. Just like last year, Liu’s providing another close-up. Will the magic produce a miracle again?
