Long-awaited 'Lost Symbol' takes fans on a fast ride
The wait’s over. The Lost Symbol, the follow-up to Dan Brown’s 2003 mega-seller The Da Vinci Code, is here. And you don’t have to be a Freemason to enjoy it (although it wouldn’t hurt).Like Angels and Demons, published in 2000, and The Da Vinci Code, The Lost Symbol solves puzzles, analyzes paintings and reveals forgotten histories – all so that Brown’s tireless hero, Robert Langdon, can find a legendary Masonic treasure. All this in spite of the fact that special soldiers are dogging his trail and a weird killer has kidnapped his dear friend and mentor.There is one mystery, though, that remains unsolved after three books.Will Langdon ever take a rest?Like any average Harvard professor, Langdon grinds coffee beans in the morning and tries to persuade bored undergrads to appreciate hidden meanings in the world around them. But he’s also the guy who survived an anti-matter explosion at the Vatican and a Paris manhunt and uncovered the truth about the Holy Grail. The answer, then, to the question about his taking a rest is clearly "no". Langdon is a master of rituals and their mysterious meanings. He finds crucial connections that other people cannot see, even in the most chaotic situations.Consider an early incident in The Lost Symbol. Langdon arrives in Washington, DC. He’s been invited by his wealthy friend Peter Solomon, a high-ranking Mason, to deliver a speech in the Capitol building. The moment he enters the hall, however, Langdon discovers there will be no speech. He finds a severed hand (Solomon’s) marked with Masonic symbols, pointing to an 1865 painting of George Washington depicted as a pagan god. This is certainly terrible. But Langdon recognizes that the horrible object resembles something called "the Hand of the Mysteries". It is a sacred invitation.The person behind the invitation calls himself Mal’akh (Hebrew for "angel"), a villain as unique, zealous and bizarre as the monk Silas in The Da Vinci Code. He’s a muscled, tattooed eunuch who’s looking for a hidden Masonic pyramid. According to the legend, the pyramid contains transformation powers. Like the "cryptex" in The Da Vinci Code, an antique helps Langdon on a hunt across the city. It’s a hunt where he’s helped – and hindered – by many characters, including the blind dean of Washington’s National Cathedral and the wise director of the CIA’s Office of Security.All of this is going to feel very familiar to readers of the previous Langdon books.The Da Vinci Code sold more than 80 million copies. It triggered hot debates over Brown’s radical vision of Jesus and Mary Magdalene. But it’s hard to imagine anyone, after reading The Lost Symbol, debating about Freemasonry in Washington, DC. The Lost Symbol is more like the experience on any roller coaster: thrilling, entertaining, then it’s over.Reader commentsLi Qingxia23, grad student, Guangdong Foreign Studies UniversityI think there are too many men filling every corner, so the book lacks a soft feminine touch. Doctor Katherine Solomon, Langdon’s new partner, only functions to connect words from Egyptian culture and Jewish scholars.There are some difficult terms, but they didn’t affect my reading. When you think you’re getting close to the answer, then Langdon proves that you’re going the wrong direction. That’s why the story is interesting: You won’t get everything until the last page.
