Last call for an era
When it premiered in 2007, Mad Men opened a window into the advertising industry and also the US during the tumultuous 1960s.On May 17, AMC aired the last episode of the series, with protagonist Don Draper (Jon Hamm) welcoming a new day with new ideas and new hope. The story, which revolves around the high-level executives and staff at a fictional advertising agency in New York City, has redefined how complex a TV drama can be.Mad Men successfully brought audiences into its world with lush nostalgic settings, costumes and characters. It unfolds in a time when everyone reads Readers’ Digest and cocktail hour is important to business. It’s also a time when Americans are experiencing civil rights marches, the Vietnam War protests, a changing youth culture, the mainstreaming of feminist thought and the rise of black power.The drama cleverly weaves all these changes into its storylines.For example during much of the series women only work as assistants who organize their male bosses’ affairs, but few are allowed to have any opinions of their own. Peggy Olson (Elisabeth Moss) is an exception. She rises from being Draper’s secretary to becoming a copywriter. But although her creative advertising ideas are appreciated, hardly any man in the office would like to date her.For those who are not conscious of these historical issues and cultures, the narrative itself is engrossing enough. Don Draper is not in any sense a decent man. He’s mean, vindictive, and always circles around different women, from prostitutes to wealthy businesswomen. But he’s undeniably attractive. Due to his cynical awareness of what the American public wish for, he’s quite successful at his job, always coming up with brilliant ideas for his clients.Draper’s work lives on the fading fumes of the American dream. We watch as he sells this dream to the public in his position as an ad man.Some were disappointed by the show’s finale, as it leaves several questions unanswered. But the idea of exploring this vital period of American history through the lens of the advertising industry, a smart script, brilliant details and solid acting, all makes Mad Men one of the most exciting dramas on TV.
