‘Sleepy Hollow’ will wake up audiences
Although it’s too early to call the winners and losers of this fall’s new TV series, a recent CNN article already listed three new drama successes of the season so far: NBC’s Blacklist, ABC’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., and Fox’s Sleepy Hollow.It’s easy to figure out why the first two are attracting big audiences. Blacklist airs right after one of TV’s biggest hits The Voice and features film star James Spader, while Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. is a spinoff of the hugely popular Marvel movie franchise.In contrast, Sleepy Hollow has no major advantages: It’s based on a not particularly popular short story from 1820 and features no recognizable stars.So, how does such a show end up as one of the fall’s biggest hits? Read on and find out.No ordinary genre show“There’s an audience out there for genre, but with Sleepy Hollow, we wanted to broaden the show out so you didn’t have to be a genre fan to watch,” co-creator and executive producer Alex Kurtzman said at the series’ launch party.Indeed, story-wise, Sleepy Hollow seems like the kind of show only comic fans would enjoy: It’s about an American Revolutionary War soldier named Ichabod Crane. After a two-century slumber, he awakens in the 21st century and immediately begins fighting demons and monsters alongside a sexy female cop.However, rather than a highly dense sci-fi fantasy thriller, the show is structured in a way that ensures each episode is at least partially self-contained.“From the beginning, we designed a show [where] there’s a case every episode with a monster, or a supernatural problem, and they have to solve it,” Kurtzman explained.“But they’re not going to have an emotional experience one week and then forget it the next. We’re going to be building on something throughout the course of the show.”Not afraid to be crazyIn her review of the Sleepy Hollow pilot, Huffington Post TV critic Maureen Ryan used one word to sum it up: It’s “bonkers”.An accurate statement? In the first hour, the viewers deal with time travel, biblical prophesies, witchcraft, demonic possession, conspiracy theories, and an epic romance that’s survived two centuries.“So, yeah, Sleepy Hollow is nuts. It is cheerfully, unapologetically nuts,” a review from Hitfix said, also pointing out the series’ craziness. “It is aware of just how ridiculous it is, and it tries to cram in as many wacky ideas as can fit into the opening hour without falling into complete camp.”And the craziness has its origin — The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, the 1820 short story by US writer Washington Irving, which the show is based on, is about a headless horseman, after all.Less episodes helpsAlthough Fox has already ordered a second season of Sleepy Hollow, the show’s first season won’t be scheduled to run 22 episodes, like a traditional series, but probably 13. “It was a huge relief because it meant we weren’t going to have to spin our wheels,” Kurtzman told USA Today. “And now, we can approach this [so that] every episode can be like a finale.”
