Sentimental movie for end of year
If somebody says “New Year’s Eve”, and all you can think of is Time Square in New York City–as if it’s the only place in the universe you want to be when the ball drops at midnight on December 31, then the film New Year’s Eve is for you.Following the 2010 Valentine’s Day collaboration, New Year’s Eve is the second in a remarkable series of holiday-themed, celebrity-stuffed confections from director Gary Marshall and screenwriter Katherine Fugate.Many of the elements are the same as they were for Valentine’s Day. The plot is built around several interlinked stories–included here are first kisses, midnight rendezvous, dying fathers, newborn babies, husbands at war and trapped strangers.The threads of romance emanate from, of course, Times Square. Some of the footage in the film came from last year’s New Year’s in Times Square.This, surely, is one big accomplishment of the film: The atmosphere is very true to the Times Square celebration.Another big attraction of the film is certainly the star-packed casting. In a film like this, a walk-on character would be a big name.Hilary Swank plays a character running the Times Square festivities, at which a famous rocker Jensen (played by Jon Bon Jovi) is to perform. Jensen happens to be the ex-boyfriend of a super chef (Katherine Heigl), whose sous-chef is Sofia Vergara of Modern Family.Abigail Breslin, now a teenager, is hoping to join her friends in Times Square, but her mother (Sarah Jessica Parker) won’t let her.Jessica Biel, with husband Seth Meyers, is going into labor, competing for the New Year’s first baby against a rival couple.Ashton Kutcher gets stuck in an elevator for hours with backup singer Lea Michele.Most bizarre, perhaps, is the pairing of nurse Halle Berry and dying Vietnam veteran Robert De Niro.The many characters run around familiar New York tourist attractions and pair off predictably. None of them are more than clichés, but the cast is likable and pretty enough that most are able to swallow the pallid dialogue without causing inadvertent laughs.The cameos keep coming until the end, with even Mayor of New York City Michael Bloomberg dropping by. After all, this is as much an ad for New York as it is a movie. And you can spot Knicks star Amare Stoudemire as the credits rolled. Obviously, the NBA lockout was very hard on players.And it’s during these lighthearted extras and outtakes at the end where the most honest moment of the film occurs. New Year’s Eve may be cheesy and silly, but it’s the kind of movie that can sweetly soak up a holiday evening.
