Singing with heart and soul
After all the good, the odd, the average, and the bad voices, Hunan TV’s Super Boy is finally shifting into finals mode. Only eight of the 230,000 hopefuls remained on-stage after the competition on July 23.The show’s old format was revamped for this week’s edition, as many fans complained that it was too complicated to follow. So each episode now features just two rounds of competition.Also, veteran judges Eric Wu and Gao Xiaosong are back – along with their sharp tongues and ears.Viewers will now turn their attention to the contestants’ voices, after the good-looking Wu Junyu was voted out on July 23. Here, 21st Century discusses the characteristics of this season’s “super voices” and recommends songs for them .■ Chen Xiang, 20,Sichuan Conservatory of Music-Mianyang Arts CollegeThe melancholy prince of pop music has a voice that is crystal-clear and smooth. It touches the soul. In addition to his exquisite, velvety baritone, he has swept many completely off their feet with his elegant stage presence. When he croons mushy romantic songs and ballads while playing a guitar, there’s just no way that we can handle any more musical tenderness.For Chen XiangFind Your Love by DrakeThe US hip-hop singer’s top-ten Billboard single, Find Your Love, is a mid-tempo ballad. Drake’s voice sounds thicker and more sophisticated than Chen’s, but Chen’s tender voice would fit any kind of ballad. And with his ability to interpret deep emotion when singing, the Chinese contestant will be able to deliver the song’s bittersweet message.■ Wang Ye, 23, LiaoningAt more than 180cm tall, Wang gives off an image of power. He has a deep, commanding, powerhouse voice that is both a little husky and yet soulful, too. He can easily pull off the most fierce rock songs. Sometimes, though, he shouts a little too much. And his insufficient vocal technique makes his singing less easy on the ear.For Wang YeI Like It by Enrique IglesiaThe power and passion in the Spanish singer’s voice fits perfectly with Wang‘s singing style. This hit single from Enrique Iglesias’s new album Euphoria is a good example of how Iglesia can put emotion into a dance song with strong beats – being both sentimental and sexy at the same time. Maybe that approach will be just the thing to turn Wang into a breakthrough artist.■ Liu Xin, 22, LiaoningIn his straw hat and big, black-framed glasses, the R&B singer-songwriter combines a cute look with a cool voice. He has a magnetic and flexible voice with an impressive vocal range that’s well-suited to the R&B genre. But to be a perfect R&B songster, the less-than-slim Liu may need to start exercising a little more.For Liu XinRidin’ Solo by Jason DerüloLiu’s rhythmic voice would find a home in Ridin’ Solo, American R&B singer Jason Derülo’s hit single off his debut album, which has topped the UK R&B Chart and reached the Top 10 on Billboard. This buttoned-down R&B song with an upbeat tempo may sound like more fun when Liu sings it. After all, he knows exactly when to deploy his lilt to ramp up a song’s melodrama.
