10 of the world's ugliest buildings
Ugliness, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder, and that is something we have taken into account in our list of some of the planet’s most controversial architectural creations.1. Ryugyong Hotel, Pyongyang, North KoreaLocated in Pyongyang, the capital of DPRK, Ryugyong Hotel is 330 meters high. Construction of this hotel began in 1987. However, the project was suspended in 1992 due to financial problems and restarted in 2008. It is expected to be completed in 2013.2. Atlantis Hotel, Dubai, United Arab EmiratesOpened with great fanfare, not to mention eye-wateringly wasteful expense, at the end of 2008, the hotel boasts some quality restaurants and an admittedly great water park.Fact: The display that launched the hotel used 100,000 fireworks, around seven times more than were set off at the opening ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.3. Palace of the Parliament, Bucharest, RomaniaThe building has over 1,100 rooms, is 12 stories tall and has several underground levels. Impressive undoubtedly, it’s just a shame that much of Bucharest’s historic center including 30,000 residences and 28 churches had to make way for the project.4. Zizkov Television Tower, Prague, Czech RepublicThe trouble with 216-meter towers is that they tend to be noticed. You would be forgiven then for wondering why the architect tasked with designing a giant transmitter tower in one of Europe’s most picturesque cities didn’t come up with something better than this replica of a space-shuttle launch.5. Experience Music Project, Seattle, United StatesThe architect supposedly channeled the anarchy of "smashed-up Fender Stratocaster guitars" into his design. The fact his astronomical fee resulted in something more akin to Technicolor open heart surgery can’t have been music to the ears of project founder Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen.Fact: Jimi Hendrix, a prominent Seattleite, inspired the museum’s name and design. A voracious consumer of LSD, the guitarist might have appreciated Gehry’s design more than its modern audience.6. Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum, Hanoi, VietnamThe structure itself is apparently meant to evoke Vietnamese traditions including a communal house and a lotus flower (how the two can be combined in one building is unclear).7. Metropolitan Cathedral, Liverpool, EnglandFar from conjuring images of heavenly repose, the church is more akin to a giant concrete tent, hence its local nickname "Paddy’s Wigwam" (Paddy being pejorative for Catholics of Irish descent).The Cathedral project was ill-starred from the off. Designs by Sir Edwin Lutyens and Adrian Gilbert Scott were rejected for being, in the case of the former, too expensive, and in the case of the latter, not good enough. The task eventually fell to Sir Frederick Gibberd and it is his finished product that stands to this day.Fact: The cathedral authority sued Gibberd for ￡1.3million (US$2 million) when the aluminum roof started to leak and defects were noted in the mosaic tiles. Strangely they seem to have been happy enough with the building’s actual design.8. The Portland Building, Portland, United StatesIt is an accepted fact that the 1980s was the decade where taste went mad and decided to start donning pattern sweaters and shoulder pads. However, that still doesn’t explain why judges went with Michael Graves’ design for a new civic building in the US state of Oregon.9. The Fang Yuan Building, Shenyang, ChinaLike most of the buildings on our list, this effort is distinctive if not distinguished. Architect CY Lee –- who did a much better job with his Taipei 101 skyscraper over in Taiwan -– wanted to fuse cultures by merging an old Chinese coin, complete with square cut-out, with a contemporary modern office block.10. Petrobras Headquarters, Rio De Janiero, BrazilIn a way you have to admire Petrobras for its audacity. After all, it is not every leading multi-national firm (the energy company is the biggest in Latin America) that chooses to house its showpiece headquarters in a building that’s as awful as this.Fact: The building is at least in good company. Its next door neighbor is Rio De Janeiro Cathedral, an equally controversial (read ugly) example of concrete brutalism.
