Time travel wins fans
AmericaThe Time Traveler’s WifeThe Time Traveler’s Wife is a film based on the bestselling novel by US author Audrey Niffenegger. It follows the life of Henry DeTamble (Eric Bana), a reluctant time traveler whose genetic condition means he gets whipped through time. He can’t control this and turns up naked at seemingly random places.One place he returns to repeatedly is a meadow. Here he meets a little girl, Clare Abshire (Rachel McAdams), who gets him some clothes. Henry (sometimes older sometimes younger) visits often and, inevitably, she falls in love with him. When she is 20, she meets a 28-year-old "real-time" Henry. They fall in love, and Henry keeps going backwards and forwards as the drama develops.About TimeIf time travel were possible, what would you do? Visit a deceased family member? Correct past mistakes? Perhaps even change history a little bit? Tim Lake (Domhnall Gleeson), the protagonist in the romantic comedy About Time, uses his ability to travel back in time to find the love of his life.Tim comes from a nice, comfortable British family, and he has no serious worries, except for his luck with women. On his 21st birthday, his father (Bill Nighy) reveals a major secret: The men in their family have the ability to go back in time.Soon, Tim gets his chance to work on the romance issue when he meets Mary (Rachel McAdams) in a restaurant. He “re-meets” her, perfecting their “chance” encounter. They fall in love, marry and have children.ChinaPalaceThe TV drama Palace revolves around Qingchuan, a young woman from the 21st century, who time travels to the Qing Dynasty. There, she falls into a love triangle with Yinzhen and Yinsi, the fourth and eighth sons of the Kangxi Emperor.And according to the video clip released online, Qingchuan and Yinsi find their way back to 21st century in the end. That’s how it could happen. But the director Yu Zheng dropped a bombshell, claiming that he had shot three possible endings. In the other two possible endings, Qingchuan may be forced to get married to Yinzhen, the man she doesn’t love, while her husband Yinsi may end up dying in prison.Startling by Each StepThe time-travel TV drama Startling by Each Step is based on a popular online novel of the same name by writer Tong Hua, a Chinese expatriate in New York. The drama aired on Hunan TV in fall of 2011. The plot is full of romance and historical fiction, taking place in the Qing Dynasty during Kangxi and Yongzheng’s reign.After a terrible car accident, 25-year-old Zhang Xiao (Liu Shishi) travels from modern-day China back to the 18th century. When attempts to return to her life in the future fail, Rouxi tries to adjust to her new life in the court of Emperor Kangxi but soon becomes entangled in the crown princes’ struggle to succeed the throne. The finale ended with Ruoxi returning to the modern era. She bumps into her love, Emperor Yongzheng (Nicky Wu) in a museum in present day.KoreaRooftop PrinceA prince from the Joseon era (18th century), Lee Gak (second from left), is catapulted 300 years forward into the future in Seoul 2012 with his entourage – Song Man-bo, Do Chi-san and Woo Young-sul, when he tries to investigate the suspicious circumstances which surround the death of the woman he loved. In the present, he finds a young woman who looks exactly like his beloved crown princess...Man From the StarsWith love triangles, incurable diseases, and Cinderella tales, storylines in South Korean dramas may seem a bit commonplace. The Man From the Stars challenges this norm by integrating aliens and time travel into these existing narrations.Kim Soo-hyun, lead actor in the drama, swept the country.It reinforces the fantasy among young people with faces designed for viewers across the spectrum: the next door girl; the rebellious, sophisticated woman; the mature gentleman; little-brother faces. You name it.Apart from pretty faces, fashion is another highlight of the series. Each time actors from the series wear a new set of outfits, similar clothes experience a sales spike online.Thanks to the drama，beer and fried chicken，the new mix-and-match junk food trend has become popular among young audiences, despite its unhealthy nature.
