Tuned in to streaming
Chinese online video websites used to operate as supplementary broadcast platforms for TV stations. But now original programs independently produced by some major video sites have achieved unparalleled success.Domestic superhero parody film Jian Bing Man (《煎饼侠》) has just become the sixth Chinese film in history to net more than 1 billion yuan at the box office. This is largely due to the success of online mini-series Diors Man (《屌丝男士》), which airs on Sohu and was created by Dong Chengpeng, who directs and is the leading actor in both the series and film. Since the show went online in 2012, Dong’s funny satirical style has quickly garnered the show a large group of followers. The film gives diehard fans a chance to show their support for Dong. As an Internet catchphrase goes, “We owe Dong a film ticket.”Many other Internet-based shows also cater to the tastes of young audiences. Look at action and adventure drama The Lost Tomb ( 《盗墓笔记》) and time travel series The Emperor Through to the Modern (《拐个皇帝回现代》).Besides taste-tailored storytelling, online platforms have another appeal: They’re inclusive. Talk shows, debate programs, reality TV – any format that sells can be put online.“The Internet is a more open platform. It doesn’t draw conclusions, nor does it try to educate. It tolerates different voices,” Jiang Bin, general manager of iQiyi’s program development center, told China Daily about the popularity of self-made programs such as the website’s talk show Morning Call (《晓说》).Online programs also enable interaction between viewers through a system called danmu or danmaku in Japanese.Danmaku invites viewers to type in their thoughts while watching a show and simultaneously displays the comments on everyone’s video screen. For example: “Cautious! Exciting scenes are coming soon!” “He has undertaken all the CPs (couplings) in the show!”Danmaku and other interactive functions “direct” video websites to adjust their programs. In 2014 Tencent’s original music show The Hit of China (《Hi歌》), the number of virtual flowers given to contestants by users determined whether they’d go or stay.The year 2014 was called “the first year of the era of online shows”. But back then many assumed online shows only starred new faces and looked about as cheap as their budgets. But now all these preconceptions are being shattered. 2015 is truly giving Web series a shiny new coat of paint.
