Another Case Closed
He may look like an elementary schoolboy, but he is the one you can count on to solve the most complicated criminal cases. You shouldn’t need any additional clues to figure out the name of this detective — it’s Conan Edogawa.The leading character in Japanese manga and anime Detective Conan was originally 17-year-old high school student detective Shinichi Kudo. But one day during an investigation, he was poisoned by two men from the Black Organization, and his body shrank to the size of a child’s. Fortunately, he retains his intelligence. With the help of Hiroshi Agasa, his scientist neighbor, Conan proves that being a hero has nothing to do with size, but with having a sharp mind and a brave heart.Last month, The Disappearance of Conan Edogawa: The Worst Two Days in History, a special celebrating the series’ 20th anniversary was released.The story starts when Conan heads for a bathhouse with his friends Ran and Haibara. While watching a suspicious man skulk around the bathhouse, Conan slips and knocks himself unconscious. The man turns out to be a well-known hitman, and he takes Conan away to keep him quiet. When the hit man and his accomplice finds out that Conan has amnesia because of the fall, they decide to use him for another plan.As is normal for Conan stories, the special twists and turns before Conan finally sleuths his way out of the situation. This style of storytelling allows viewers to decode the mystery along with the protagonists, one of the keys to the franchise’s enduring success. If you’re a Sherlock Holmes fan (as Conan is), this anime should be a fun watch, although the format may seem too familiar to those who read a lot of detective novels.Conan never gives up trying to find out a way back into his older body when fighting against the Black Organization, and he stays vigilant to make sure his friends don’t get ensnared too much in his exploits.For two decades, fans of Detective Conan have grown up with the little boy, and we’d rather postpone the reunion with Shinichi to let the anime last a bit longer.
