Taking flight
It’s been a year of movie sequels, with Captain America: The Winter Soldier, The Amazing Spider-Man 2 and X-Men: Days of Future Past all hitting theaters. But among big-budget sci-fi blockbusters, DreamWorks’ new animation How to Train Your Dragon 2, an elaborate film with a heartwarming story, is one of my favorites.If 2010’s How to Train Your Dragon was a smash hit that showcased DreamWorks’ ability to make films equal in quality to Pixar, then this is a textbook example of how to do a sequel just right. How to Train Your Dragon 2 expands the universe established in the first film, adding new characters and worlds to explore, yet it still concentrates on telling a complete story centered on its main characters.When we last left the Viking village of Berk, the teenaged Hiccup had convinced his ferocious father Stoick that dragons were not enemies but loving creatures to be embraced.Unfortunately, the evil Drago Bludvist disagrees. This time, he’s building a dragon army to destroy Berk and the secret dragon paradise created by Hiccup’s mother, Valka. A war seems inevitable and the consequences will be catastrophic.The first movie was a boy-and-his-pet story: Hiccup tames and raises a Night Fury dragon nicknamed Toothless. While the film celebrated the virtues of compassion and friendship, the sequel is a coming of age story in which Hiccup, now a young man in his 20s, struggles to find his place in a foggy future. And despite relying on familiar coming of age cliches, How to Train Your Dragon 2 provides a fresh angle, with an emotionally engaging story and characters.The film is also a visual masterpiece. It’s a journey that feels like flying on the back of a dragon — dramatic, breathtaking and a lot of fun — thanks to great 3-D direction by returning director Dean DeBlois. There are stunning scenes featuring different kinds of dragons, and large scale action set pieces showing careful attention to detail, such as the texture of leather or worn metal armor.Certainly, How to Train Your Dragon 2 is a good film that can stand on its own. But in terms of franchise building, I can’t wait to see the next installment — not because I know what’s coming, but rather because I have no idea what to expect.
