Is it a bird or a plane?
IF you are expecting to see a Chinese Superman when you sit down with your popcorn to watch the new science-fiction film Metallic Attraction: Kungfu Cyborg (机器侠), you’ll be sorely disappointed. True, the robot De Ming (Alex Fong) featured in the movie isn’t a bird or a plane, but neither is he a character that will linger in your mind beyond 2009.Jeffrey Lau’s Kungfu Cyborg disappoints much like most of China’s sci-fi films have. This suggests that the genre is nowhere close to competing with the sci-fi movies that Hollywood turns out, such as the recent Transformers.Set in the year 2046, Kungfu Cyborg tells the story of a police robot who falls in love with a pretty human officer named Su Mei (Sun Li). Naturally, there is a bad guy - an evil robot named K88 - but the movie never really advances beyond your typical romance flick.The film’s weaknesses include predictable plotting as well as unimaginative characters and settings. "Advanced robots, bioweapons, or supernatural abilities themselves aren’t enough to make a sci-fi film," the film critic Yang Jinsong told 21st Century. "Instead, sci-fi films should be all about imagination. They have to depict the future, or create a futuristic atmosphere that we’ve never dared to think about. I have yet to see anything unpredictable [in Chinese sci-fi films]."Culture partly to blame?Chinese filmmakers are at a disadvantage when it comes to using special effects. Kungfu Cyborg’s relatively small budget can’t hold a candle to the billions of dollars thrown at movies like Terminator and Transformers.But Yang points to another reason for China’s disappointing sci-fi films: culture. Chinese filmmakers’ cultural orientation, he says, tends to focus on the past and the present - not the future. "We feel more at ease exploring the problems of present metropolitan life, or reminiscing about the old days," said Yang. "We’re not so used to thinking imaginatively about the future world."The Chinese sci-fi film and TV tradition dates back to the 1970s and 1980s. Many in the post-80s generation will remember, for instance, Pili Beibei or Thunderbolt Baby (霹雳贝贝). This popular film version told the story of a clever, electrified schoolboy born on the night of a UFO visit. It was made by Zhang Zhilu in 1987, on a budget of only 470,000 yuan.Wu Yan, a sci-fi expert and professor at Beijing Normal University, attributes the film’s popularity to its human touch. "Most of us would secretly like to have super abilities to accomplish whatever we want, especially when we are children," Wu said. "The director turned that dream into reality, so it satisfied the viewers."But like most of the sci-fi films that followed it, Thunderbolt Baby failed to imagine the future. Wu believes it will take years for China to improve its sci-fi filmmaking. In addition to a good story, the industry will need a whole new force of people with a futuristic sense.Lu Xinwen, a 19-year-old business major at Nanjing University, thinks his generation might be the one to make a Chinese Superman. After all, they have grown up in the world of cyber games and Harry Potter. For now, though, Chinese filmgoers can only wait.
