Beauty is everything
A widely circulated series of photos of aspiring beauty queens reveals once again just how obsessed Korean women are with plastic surgery.Pictures of the 20 Miss Korea 2013 finalists were posted on Reddit, a user-generated news and entertainment website, fuelling speculation that many of them had gone under the knife because they looked eerily the same.All of the contestants have dark, long hair; fair, pale skin; big eyes and a perfect, bright white smile. Their faces are oval with sharp, pointed chins that seem to have undergone a certain procedure called “V-line surgery”.Reddit user HotBrownie, who claims to come from Seoul, was quoted by UK newspaper the Daily Mail as saying: “Those women in fact do look unnervingly similar. This is called the Korean plastic face look. In certain areas of Seoul, you would think all the women are sisters because they look so similar.”The photos may be the result of Photoshop, but they still show that the contemporary concept of female beauty in South Korea is highly monotonous and conforms to a single ideal.The Atlantic magazine carried a photo of Miss Korea in 1960. Her face is round and full, her nose is flat and her eyes are small. Back then, women were expected to enhance their natural beauty instead of changing their physical features. But now, beauty contest teams often have a consulting plastic surgeon on hand.South Koreans have more plastic surgery than people in any other nation, according to figures released by the International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons.One in every 77 South Koreans has turned to the knife or needle. Last year, 20 percent of women aged 19 to 49 in Seoul admitted to having had some form of cosmetic surgery.Many women have had their eyes and noses done — making their eyes look bigger with double eyelids and their noses smaller and higher. The result is a more Western look.This dissatisfaction with their ethnic features has prompted some to describe South Koreans’ obsession with plastic surgery as “self-racism”. But, as an article in The Atlantic points out, it’s more complicated than that.A powerful consumer culture over the past two decades has led to Korean women equating beauty with professional and economic success. In South Korea, the value of beauty is upfront and open. Employers scrutinize the looks of applicants in addition to their professional qualifications.“It’s not enough just to have a certain skill set,” Sharon Hejiin Lee, a cultural analysis scholar at New York University, told The Atlantic. “You have to be beautiful as well. After the Korean economic crisis in 1997, competition for jobs led to the surgery boom; people trying to get a leg up in the job market any way they can.”
