Newbies take top honors
The 62nd prime-time Emmy Awards (the top awards for television production in the US) last Sunday night proved to be full of surprises. The majority of statuettes went to first-time winners: Many actors and actresses took home the award for the first time, and some new shows made their debut at the ceremony too. Here, 21st Century picked out four award-winning actors and actresses who have been honored for playing roles in new television shows.Sharp-tongued, keen-eyed, smart cookie“You’ll never forget her as Kalinda Sharma, the sharp-tongued, keen-eyed investigator. There’s a fine line between being manipulative and being slutty, and she’s not going to cross it. She’s a smart cookie–confident, intelligent, aware of her sexuality.”The Wall Street Journal, December 15, 2009Archie Panjabi won the award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. She plays private investigator Kalinda Sharma in The Good Wife, a CBS legal drama, which will return for a second season this fall.Go nuts, over-the-top disaster“Sue Sylvester doesn’t go nuts – she makes others go nuts, effortlessly. In less skilled hands, there’s no doubt she would be an over-the-top disaster. But thanks to the incomparable Jane Lynch, I can’t wait to see what trouble the character stirs up next.” Los Angeles Times, January 17, 2010Jane Lynch won the award for Outstanding Support Actress in a Comedy Series for playing a high school cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester in Glee. It’s Fox’s musical comedy, which is starting its second season soon.Level the playing field, forcefulness“Being smart, acrid, alternately sharp and sentimental, Jackie Peyton is compelled to make sense of the chaos and to level the playing field whenever she can. There’s a forcefulness to the character.”Entertainment Weekly, May27, 2009Edie Falco won the Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for her performance as nurse Jackie Peyton in Nurse Jackie, Showtime’s dark comedy series. The series starts its third season this fall.Stay-at-home dad, larger-than-life“Despite being a stay-at-home dad, Cameron Tucker is larger-than-life. His many talents and passions revealed over the episodes became an ever-building running gag.” USA Today, March 24, 2010Eric Stonestreet, Outstanding Support Actor in a Comedy Series,  plays Cameron Tucker, a homosexual man in Modern Family, ABC’s mockumentary-style comedy series. It will return for a second season this fall.
