Easy way to get quick cash
QIN Guan desperately needed money to get a ticket to Guangzhou so he could take part in a hip-hop dance competition, so he went to a pawnshop and got 700 yuan in exchange for his 2,000-yuan iPhone. Qin was 20 and his parents weren’t crazy about his being a dancer so he couldn’t ask them. The University for Science and Technology sophomore knew that banks didn’t lend money to students and he didn’t want to borrow from friends. So, he decided to solve the problem on his own by turning to a pawnshop, he explains. In fact, pawnshops have been catering more to university students in recent times. Most of the student customers need some quick cash and want to see whether they can depend just on themselves.Yang Chenglin, the manager of the Changlong Pawnshop near Beijing Foreign Studies and Minzu universities, told 21st Century that students come to the pawnshop to cover cash shortfalls. Yang’s shop has two or three university customers a month on average, most of them using a personal computer or some jewelry as the pawn item, something that was not so common in the past.But students are somewhat different from desperate people who come to the pawnshop to exchange something that they don’t expect to get back. "Most students reclaim the item they pawn," Yang explained. "They’re not selling it, just using it as a way to get some [quick] cash." So it goes. After he pawned the phone, Qin worked really hard teaching people how to dance and got his iPhone back. "I had to get it back, otherwise I’d have just been selling something my parents bought for me," Qin said. "That would have gone against my wish to be independent."However, in their desire to be independent, some students may be living a lie.According to Youth.cn, one student from Jinan pawned almost every item he had that was worth anything - from a laptop to stylish jeans - just to get enough cash for dates. He ended up with nothing, not even a girlfriend.Qin now finds himself in a similar situation.After that first attempt proved a success, Qin saw the pawnshop as a good source of cash. He can’t even remember how many times he visited a pawnshop. "I gradually began to depend on them, and not just for dancing competitions," Qin admitted. "I would go to them to get money to pay for dates." And sometimes he didn’t have the money to get back what he had pawned.So, while pawning may sound like an easy way to get some quick cash, students need to be able to deal with the risks. "Usually, you can’t redeem any item that’s left for more than six months, even if you can cover the interest," Yang said by way of caution.
