Forbidden romance
Falling in love with a monk seems absurd since monks are often associated with ascetics in Chinese culture. But the TV show From Five to Nine: The Handsome Monk Who Fell in Love With Me (《朝5晚9：帅气和尚爱上我》) is based on that exact premise. And it has won hearts and minds of Chinese audiences.The 10-episode Japanese drama has a quintessential Mary Sue storyline. But it outshines its television counterparts with its eye-catching cast and its creation of a new type of ideal man.It revolves around Junko Sakuraba (Satomi Ishihara), an English teacher in her late 20s, who is persistently courted by the monk Takane Hoshikawa (Tomohisa Yamashita).The storyline is based on a Japanese manga of the same title. Thanks to their ready-made fan base, manga stories have been the dominant source material for Japanese dramas, according to Yuki Furukawa, who plays the heroine’s other pursuer in From Five to Nine.“Japanese audiences watch dramas because they want to see the people in it, and because they like the manga or anime they’re often based on, not because of the quality of the story,” he told The Hollywood Reporter.Furukawa shot to fame in China in 2013 after he starred in Mischievous Kiss (《一吻定情》). Ishihara and Yamashita, the leading actress and actor, are also familiar to the Chinese audience thanks to their appearances in Heartbroken Chocolatier (《失恋巧克力职人》) and Kurosagi (《欺诈猎人》). All these TV series are based on Japanese manga.Yamashita is undoubtedly the real star in From Five to Nine. He plays a rich, handsome and well-educated monk. But beyond his idealized features lies a complex character capable being sweet and overbearing at the same time.These qualities have appeared separately in the male protagonists of Chinese TV series. There was Li Daren in In Time With You (《我可能不会爱你》), who takes good care of the female protagonist all the time. There was Bai Zihua in The Journey of Flower (《花千骨》), who’s always ascetic even in front of his beloved one. There was also He Yichen in My Sunshine (《何以笙箫默》), who expresses love forcefully.Hoshikawa is like these three characters in one. He wants Sakuraba to be all his. He puts on a deadpan face but speaks words of love in a direct and disarming manner. “Such a conflicted character contributes to the TV series’ dramatic impact. It also hooks the audience in,” commented the Beijing Youth Daily. “After all, who can resist the idea of a man changing himself just for the woman he loves?”
