Travels with my camera
“A thousand-mile journey begins with a single step,” as the saying goes. However, what it doesn’t tell us is that once the journey is started, it might be hard to stop.That’s the case for Tang Renli, a senior at Nanjing University of Technology, who has backpacked to more than 200 cities in China during four years of college.To share his experiences, Tang has hosted a photo exhibition Play Hooky, Go Travel at the Beijing 798 Art Zone. On display are over 300 photos of his travels.“It’s a commemoration of my trips as well as a graduation gift to myself,” Tang said.The 22-year-old never thought of going to so many places when he completed his first trip to Yangzhou during the Tomb Sweeping Day holiday in his freshman year.From then on he was hooked on travel. “There was a strange yet fresh feeling that I’ve never felt before,” Tang said. “It’s curiosity that keeps me exploring new places.”You may wonder how Tang could find the time, being a full-time college student. Did he really skip classes to go travel, like the title of his exhibition suggests?“I gave myself one to two weeks every month for travel. But I always took care of my class and assignments first,” Tang said.Tang, who is a city planning major, has never failed a compulsory course at college.“I spent more time and effort on my study, especially during the finals’ weeks,” Tang said. “But thinking of traveling afterwards was my biggest motivation.”Schoolwork was not the only obstacle Tang had to confront. His travel budget was limited, so Tang had to make the most of what he had.He usually took the cheapest form of transport and stayed at youth hostels costing less than 50 yuan per night.There were also times when he walked, hitchhiked, and slept in train stations, police offices and vans.“Sometimes I felt lonely, helpless and even found myself in danger,” Tang said. “But now that I look back, these setbacks enriched my journey, and my life.”Thanks to the hard times, Tang now has more stories to tell.“People often ask me what kind of advice I can give to those who want to do the same,” Tang said. “Don’t think too much about the uncertainties because you’ll cross that bridge when you get to it.”“And once you take your first step, the feeling is amazing and addictive.”
