A truth that's stranger than fiction
Jiang Wen is at the top of the world - the world of Chinese cinema, that is. His year-end release Let the Bullets Fly has just broken the box-office record for a domestic film with some 700 million yuan ($107 million) in gross receipts. He does not need others to tell him how great he is - not any more. That does not mean he is not proud of Bullets. It’s just that Bullets, for him, is fun. He is aware of all the political interpretations of his story that have sprung up across the Web and mainstream media. "No, I did not mean to embed political meanings into the story," he says straightforwardly. The Goose Town, the central setting for the movie, has come to symbolize China for some film buffs with a political leaning. Yet, Jiang repeatedly uses the location as an outing to the murky world of genre-film making. The most brilliant touches in his movies all seem to traverse the stream of reality, for example, in Bullets opens with a train pulled by white horses. "I did not invent this set-up. For 30 years in the early 20th century, there was a segment of rail line in Northeast China that was powered by horses," he explains, without getting into the symbolic significance of such devices. "You may conceive the most unlikely scenes, and you’ll find that fact is stranger than fiction." Jiang Wen was trained at the Central Drama Academy - as an actor. Yet he is known for his bold visualizations. He prefers scripts read to him by someone who can turn the words alive. His storyboards, as drafts for each shot, tend to be cursory. But his verbal description of each scene is so vivid the listener can quickly recreate each frame in his or her mind’s eye. The only filmmaker whose work Jiang admits as having an impact on him is Martin Scorsese. After watching a string of the American director’s movies, Jiang requested a meeting with him on a trip to the United States arranged by the US Embassy. Scorsese has acted like a mentor, sending him detailed materials from his production. "When a director sees a story or a script he’s crazy about, he does not have any towering figures in front of him. He must feel he himself is the greatest. It is nonsense when people say they are paying respect to this or that predecessor." Jiang says. What Jiang saysOn political analogies No matter how you shoot it or cut it, you will bring something of yourself into your movies, just as the old saying goes about everything being imprinted with ideology. You do not necessarily intend it. I never meant to make In the Heat of the Sun or Devils at the Doorstep autobiographical. I’m an avid reader of history, but I don’t think history should be approached only in the way we were taught in school. Artists have their own interpretations. So, we make art with our worldviews, but by no means do we create everything in our own self-image.On film criticsWhy should Chinese film critics be obsessed with box-office revenue? That’s the job of the investors and producers. What do you lose when you praise a good movie that does not sell? You should write what you believe in. Critics who are guided by money are pathetic.
