Battle for top spot
Honestly speaking, Game of Thrones, HBO’s epic fantasy drama, is one of those shows I don’t even feel qualified to critique, because everyone involved seems to be functioning at a higher level than I can understand.But as a fan of the US television series, I just can’t find another show that’s as wide in scope, addictive and tantalizing as Game of Thrones.Fantasy is probably the toughest genre to make, to sell and to sustain. If you create, as novelist George R.R. Martin has, a world in which there are not only dragons and monsters but people of more than seven kingdoms and their complicated relationships, you cannot afford too many missteps.Yet, every season of Game of Thrones proves stronger than the last. Back for its fourth season on April 6, one thing that’ will be exciting to see, again, is just how many plates it can keep spinning at the same time.As one storyline is concluded, another grows from its end and begins anew. And all this is going on while about 30 other characters are hanging in the background. So, it can be a little tough to follow at times. But it’s also what makes you want to keep watching.In addition to the densely packed plotlines, there’s also an impressive amount of violence. Major characters are killed off with regularity — nobody is safe. (In fact, the slogan for season four is “All men must die”.) But behind the blood, it’s the sociopolitical elements of Westeros — the fictional world in which the story takes place — that help captivate viewers.Characters are constantly scheming to gain more power in this world, and the way these plans unfold, or collapse, creates a sense of suspense, intrigue and drama. The range of themes, love and death, vengeance and loyalty, power and submission, greed and generosity, resonates with the modern world and gives Game of Thrones relevance and depth.The characters, the writing, the sets and camera work, and the fantasy world itself, all of them areenough to make Game of Thrones one of the best TV shows on air.As for the rest, who am I to judge? Just sit back and enjoy this ingenious creation.
