Fall series fall in
As we continue indulging ourselves in the US’ summer television season, it’s easy to forget that the most important season in the TV industry is nearly upon us.Like the start of a new school year, fall marks the start of a whole new year for TV shows. In the following months, broadcast networks in the US will offer a slew of new shows about the usual tough lady lawyers, quirky cop duos and tortured superheroes.Here, we list a few of the most anticipated new series this fall. Decide for yourself and plan your viewing accordingly.The FlashPremiere date: Oct 7Channel: CWGenre: sci-fi, dramaBased on the popular DC Comics character, this series will follow “fastest man alive” Barry Allen. Allen is a criminal investigator who discovers he can move at superhuman speeds after being struck by a lightning. He then decides to use his powers to defend his hometown Central City.The CW’s new comic-book series has special effects that look big-screen-worthy. The show’s lighthearted tone helps set it apart from today’s dour superheroes.GothamPremiere date: Sept 22Channel: FoxGenre: crime dramaThis Batman prequel will revolve around Bruce Wayne’s early days before he begins fighting crime as the Batman. The series will show off younger incarnations of popular villains like the Penguin and Catwoman along with Detective Jim Gordon before he becomes the famous police commissioner.Doing a Batman show without Batman is a risk, but given the current craze of comic book adaptations, Gotham is very likely to stay.SelfiePremiere date: Sept 30Channel: ABCGenre: comedyEliza Dooley is a twentysomething social media queen with hundreds of thousands of followers. After realizing that she has no real friends, she asks one of her coworkers to “rebrand” her as a more likeable person.Loosely based on the 1964 film My Fair Lady, Selfie offers a comedic commentary on our culture’s obsession with social media complete with pop-up hashtags.How to Get Away with MurderPremiere date: Sept 25Channel: ABCGenre: legal thrillerAnnalise Keating, a law professor at a prestigious Philadelphia university, enlists her best students to help her tackle tough cases in the courtroom. But soon she finds herself and her students involved in an astonishing murder plot.The latest project from US screenwriter Shonda Rhimes (Grey’s Anatomy and Scandal) mixes up the usual Rhimes troupes — fraternizing with authority and plenty of backstabbing. And Oscar nominee Viola Davis’ performance alone makes this show a must-watch.Madam SecretaryPremiere date: Sept 21Channel: CBSGenre: dramaElizabeth McCord was once one of the CIA’s best analysts, then she quit the spy life to raise a family. When her former boss, now the president of the United States, asked her to take on the role of Secretary of State, she is thrown back into the world of terrorists, political maneuvering and hostage negotiating. And things don’t go smoothly.The show, which is said to be “The Good Wife in the White House”, explores intrigue, fraught family dynamics and political tensions.
