Micro-blogs bring fans, stars closer
CELEBRITIES tired of running from and wiggling through paparazzi crowds are fighting back by taking away the business that birthed the snoops.The increasing popularity of the micro-blog has given stars the chance to interact with fans on their own terms. Now, all the without-makeup, behind-the-scenes, exclusive pictures-the bread and butter of the paparazzi-are being posted online by stars themselves.The micro-blog has become the instant platform for celebrities to report the everyday details of their lives. Several big micro-blogging websites are now flush with celebrity accounts. Hong Kong singer and actress GiGi Leung updates her micro-blog as many as 12 times a day. So does Miriam Yeung.  With just a few words per post, they say they’re building stronger bonds with fans. Mainland actress Yao Chen’s micro-blog has been acclaimed as the most popular celebrity micro-blog on Sina.com. Her humorous posts have attracted 1.26 million followers. "I don’t think stars have to be mysterious anymore," Yao said. "Stars should show a more lively, authentic side of themselves to fans. And a micro-blog is a good way to do it." Mini-blogs are also big among Western celebrities. American actress Demi Moore once tweeted about how she pulled a tooth out by herself. Britney Spears uses Twitter to update fans about her and her children. "As demystification continues, the era of idolization will likely end very soon," an editorial in Southern Metropolis Entertainment Weekly reads. The development of micro-blogging social networking sites has allowed stars to control more of their private life.  But rather than shutting themselves in, they are opening up to the public. Fans love it. They’ve flocked to it, and even created a new "responsibility" for loyal followers. By continually posting comments, fans can help increase the popularity of their favorite stars’ micro-blogs. Every blue moon, stars even reply.Celebrity micro-bloggers post hellos in the morning and send kisses at night. On the other side of the screen, millions eagerly await these minute messages. The relationship between celebrities and fans is the closest it has ever been, thanks to the new "micro-distance" of the entertainment world.
