Web TV takeover
This summer, web-only reality shows seem to be stealing the thunder of traditional TV.Chinese video websites plan to launch over 90 shows this year covering various formats: talk shows, debate programs, parenting shows, to name but a few. The most popular among them include Tencent’s Go! Fridge (《拜托了冰箱》) and iQiyi’s S-style Show (《姐姐好饿》) –*amassing an average of over 10 million clicks every day between them, according to figures from EntGroup Inc.Online shows are no longer just the home of new faces and C-list stars. Many renowned TV hosts including He Jiong, Wang Han and Xie Na, have joined in the web revolution.In the meantime, it appears that some traditional TV shows are losing their *allure. The rating of Zhejiang TV’s *flagship singing competition show Sing! China (《中国新歌声》) has fallen to below 3 recently, which is about half of its highest figure.A report released earlier this month by China Internet Network Information Center shows that the country has around 700 million internet users. This *monolithic market means that online video sites are being transformed from *supplementary broadcast platforms to original program suppliers.Compared to conventional TV, most web shows cater precisely to the tastes of young audiences, aiming their output mainly at the post-1990s generation – apparently the most “vibrant” of internet users. Production teams are well versed with online buzzwords and punch lines –U Can U Bibi (《奇葩说》) even “warning” its watchers: “Viewers over 40, please watch our show in the company of a post-1990s person.”Online shows attach great importance to the needs of their viewers. Tencent’s survey-answering reality show Are You Normal (《你正常吗》) challenges its guests to match their responses with the majority of those gleaned from internet respondents’.However, the success of online variety shows is still largely due to the celebrity hosts and guests. Like their *counterparts on TV screens, many online programs count on successful foreign models. Go! Fridge, for example, is based on South Korean variety show Please Take Care of My Fridge which sees guests bring in the contents of their refrigerators which chefs use to cook up a storm for viewers.“Besides more adult-oriented lines and trendy packaging, faster editing pace and basic interactive functions like *danmaku, web shows are actually no different than TV shows,” Peng Kan, director of research and consulting department of Legend Media told Media & Entertainment Industry Reporter.“The existing online shows haven’t *maximized the advantage of internet. Real *interaction should be based on live streaming,” Peng said.
