Another world
India’s PK is about an alien who comes to Earth for a research mission. While this may sound like a million other movies you’ve already seen, the storyline twists away from the tracks laid by previous extraterrestrial-meets-man movies.The film, director Rajkumar Hirani’s latest science fiction comedy, intentionally leaves behind fierce intergalactic battle and soul-touching cross-species intimacy, filling the void with satirical comedy instead. PK, which arrived in Chinese cinemas on May 22, follows PK (Aamir Khan), a bug-eyed alien, as he searches to find a stolen remote control that will help him return home. The journey is filled with laughter, tears and thoughtfulness.The first half of the film is studded with comic detail. After discovering the strange world, the inquisitive alien questions things that everyone else takes for granted. One scene in which he tries to use a poster printed with the Indian rupee currency symbol to buy carrots is outrageously funny.The narrative later turns to focus more on PK’s hidden unrequited love toward Jaggu (Anushka Sharma), a plucky TV journalist, and then ends with a dramatic curve.Even when viewed merely as a love story, PK holds its own. The love between Jaggu and Sarfaraz (Sushant Singh Rajput), a young Pakistani Muslim man, overcomes misunderstandings, parental disapproval and the barrier of different beliefs.But Hirani’s ambitions extended far beyond just making another love story. His 2009 hit 3 Idiots, which also starred Aamir Khan, 50, incited discussion across India about the country’s education system. And this time, he takes a critical look at religions and social norms through PK’s seemingly ridiculous but logical actions.In a country where faiths are deeply rooted in the culture, most filmmakers consciously avoid touching on the subject to avoid controversy. Hirani’s daring to bring religion to the forefront of public discourse is no doubt a bold move.The strong religious overtones may take a bit more time for Chinese audiences to understand, but PK is thought provoking nonetheless. Every one of us lives in a society where human beings adhere to certain belief systems and codes of behavior. We usually just accept how things are without asking why.The two protagonists in the film, PK and Jaggu, share a similar courage to challenge these deeply ingrained beliefs and behaviors. When Jaggu’s colleagues are busy making news out of a mentally ill suicidal cat, she’s the maverick who looks for real newsworthy reports.This courage is what many of us have lost with age but still long to rediscover in ourselves. That universal sentiment is surely behind PK’s international success.
