Lost and found
Many people in the entertainment industry dream of rising to fame overnight. But Jing Boran was more patient. After eight years in showbiz, he only recently earned acclaim for playing the leading role in a film. Jing says that even after investing so much time in the business, his success came earlier than he expected.In much-discussed human trafficking drama Lost and Love, Jing plays a young man, Zeng Shuai, who is searching for his biological parents. Variety, a US-based entertainment magazine, commented Jing is a “promising mainland thespian” who “outshines the rest of the cast by not sweating it, limning small-town insouciance while hinting at deep emotional scars.” Hollywood Reporter praised his “nuanced performance” for “playing Zeng’s internalized tribulations.”The shower of praise has overwhelmed the 25-year-old actor. “I’ve stepped forward faster than I imagined!” he told Tencent Entertainment.Recent years have witnessed the rise of young actors and actresses born after 1985, most of whom share two characteristics: workaholics with prolific outputs. For example, Yang Mi had five movies and two TV series released in a single year.But Jing doesn’t fit in that group.“Many believe only playing leading roles can prove an actor’s abilities but I don’t agree,” he said. “I never refuse to play supporting roles. What I care most about is whether it’s an experienced team I can learn something from.”So, he chooses to disappear from the public’s eye from time to time, he told Tencent. He packs up and goes abroad to travel after finishing shooting a film.But that doesn’t mean he’s not dedicated. To better fit into the shoes of small town mechanic Zeng Shuai, Jing spent time living together with abducted children and watched many documentaries to try to figure out the children’s feelings.Instead of crying to express Zeng’s feelings of loss, Jing displayed the character’s sensitivity and fragility in a deeper way. He shared this line from the film on Weibo: “How could others like me if I don’t smile? How could I survive if they don’t like me?”Although the movie experienced its share of negative criticism, it seems Jing has achieved his goal.
