A fine line between heaven and hell
Mural explores the fine line between heaven and hell, when a small false step in love may lead you to a different world.“The movie consists of a love classroom. It’s about how to make choices with the heart,” director Gordon Chan was quoted as saying.“Love should not be an investment, it has to be in the purest sense.”It is based on the sixth article of the classic novel Strange Stories of a Chinese Studio, written by Pu Songling during the early Qing Dynasty.The movie traces the adventures of three men lured into a world of fairies and demons. A poor intellectual Zhu Xiaolian (Deng Chao) and his servant visit the capital to take an examination, but they stray and fall into a fight with a bandit, Meng Longtan.A monk tries to settle their dispute. In an ancient temple, they see a mural on the wall. Through it, the males enter a fantasy realm inhabited by a group of beautiful fairies.The men’s arrival stirs the love interest of the fairies, and disrupts the order of fairyland. Their friendship is also put to the test, with human desire triggering a celestial battle. Zhu himself gets tangled in a love dilemma.The movie claims to be a sequel to the previous hit Painted Skin. Instead of focusing on the love triangle within marriage, the Mural deals with a broader range of relationships. It attempts to reflect modern perceptions of love.However, not everyone buys into the director’s trick of adapting a classic story into something new.Some viewers have complained that the key message of the movie is blurred, because it is trying to say too many things at once and none of them is clear enough. It seems that countless characters and diverging plotlines are also distracting.But the movie does offer elements of humor and laughter. Mural is considered the cinematic version of the popular TV program If You Are the One: fairies make comments about their pals and the male counterparts pick their favorite wife candidates.The script sounds very modern in contrast. “Men need to have a career,” said the fairy Shaoyao (Sun Li) at the end of the story.
