Wonderful world of ‘Japanimation’
You may still remember the “Eight Minutes of Tokyo” in the closing ceremony (闭幕式) of the Rio Olympics last August. Even if the Tokyo Games wasn’t going to be here for another four years, the performance of the new host successfully stole the show (大出风头) with its famous animated (动画的) characters – Doraemon, Hello Kitty and Super Mario.It was a wise choice since there is probably nothing that shouts “Japan” more loudly than the country’s animation, known as “Japanimation”. And this year marks the 100th anniversary (周年纪念) of the very first Japanese cartoon, made in 1917.In the past century, the wild imagination of Japanese animators continued to feed our curiosity. Monsters, fairies (仙子), robots and magic feature often in their work. It has also been inspiring film industries in other parts of the world. The touching story of Disney’s The Lion King (《狮子王》，1994), for example, actually comes from Japan’s Kimba the White Lion (《森林大帝》，1965). And the 1999 Hollywood hit film, The Matrix (《黑客帝国》), was also heavily influenced by the 1989 Japanese manga Ghost in the Shell (《攻壳机动队》).“I love his films. I study his films. I watch his films when I’m looking for inspiration (灵感),” John Lasseter, director of Pixar’s Toy Story, once said about famous Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki.And our thirst (渴望) for this imaginary world is only growing.At the end of last year, for example, the story of Japanese cartoon Pokemon (《宠物小精灵》，1997-) was brought to life with the help of augmented reality (AR，增强现实) technology. People in many countries are often seen searching for Pokemon in real life locations through the screens of their phones. They play it on their way to school, to work, and during holiday outings. Although Pokemon began as a video game a year before the cartoon came out, people should give the animation a “Thanks” for bringing it to a wider audience.Besides being a source (来源) of entertainment, Japanese animation is also a shaping force of our daily lives. For example, wearing glasses used to be considered as uncool and geeky (书呆子气的), but after the 1981 TV animation Arale (《阿拉蕾》), in which there is a heavily-nearsighted (高度近视的) girl with wings and magic powers, glasses soon became fashionable. And the language we use – the word meng (萌), to name one – is also reportedly from Japanese animation.But interestingly, with all the imagination that is so admired by modern fans, it would still be hard for Japanese animators in 1917 to believe that the two-dimensional (二维的) worlds that they were creating at the time would have such a big influence in today’s three-dimensional world.
