LeBron ends sports jinx
Like it or not, we’re living in the age of LeBron.Historic championship comebacks, through-the-roof TV ratings, sad sports cities turned into Happyville. LeBron James can apparently do it all.The Cleveland Cavaliers forward has won three NBA titles with two teams in a five-year span against three future, former or current MVPs: Kevin Durant, Tim Duncan and Stephen Curry.And now after liberating Cleveland, there were reports that James would sit out the Olympics and a chance to win a third gold medal with Team USA.James, 31, can probably use the rest. After all, he freed Cleveland from it s 52-year sports *jinx.He grew up in nearby Akron, was drafted by Cleveland, bolted to win two championships with Miami and then returned two years ago with unlimited potential for seldom-seen sports *redemption.“I came back for a reason. I came back to bring a championship to our city,” he said. “I knew what I learned in the last couple years that I was gone. When I came back, I knew I had the right ingredients and the right blueprint to help this franchise get back to a place that we’ve never been.”He was the *unanimous Finals MVP. No one else approached his off-the-charts numbers. In the last three games alone, he averaged 36.3 points, 11.7 rebounds, 9.7 assists, three blocked shots and three steals.Through it all, James remains a tough personality to define. He’s not as *warm and fuzzy as Curry, though not as draconian as the deathly serious Kobe Bryant.James *vacillated between tears and smiles in the first hour after Game 7, and it all made sense.“Throughout my 13-year career, I’ve done nothing but be true to the game, give everything I’ve got to the game–put my heart, my blood, sweat, tears into the game – and people still want to doubt what I’m capable of doing,” James said. “So that was a little icing on the cake for myself.”Cleveland has some off-season work to do. J.R. Smith will be a free agent and locking James in a long-term contract would be ideal, but he seems happy to go year-to-year.Oddsmakers have already established Golden State, not Cleveland, as slight championship favorites next season.James will *shrug his broad shoulders again.“I can’t wait to get off that plane and hold that trophy up and see all our fans at the terminal ... and I know they’re going to be ready,” James said before the Cavaliers headed home on June 19. “So I can’t wait to give the emotion back to them.”
