Passion and poetry
AT key moments in sports history, time itself seems to slow down and stare, slack-jawed, at the intense action unfolding on the court or field.Perhaps it’s a basketball player taking an in-bounds pass with just seconds left on the clock. He squares towards the basket and fires up a shot that’s still airborne when the buzzer sounds.Maybe it’s a striker standing in the open near the goal, the ball resting at his feet. He leans one way and then goes another, poking the ball just beyond the reach of a lunging goalkeeper.Or it could be a tennis player chasing down a volley during the final game of a classic match. Fans are holding their breath and awaiting the thwack that will determine the victor.Critical moments like these are to the sports fan what the beautiful lines of a poem are to an avid reader. They’re worth retelling again and again, if only in conversations with friends.Putting these moments into words, of course, takes talent and is a great challenge. But it is a challenge worth pursuing because sports, in the end, is just a microcosm of life.Yao, Messi and Federer leave their marks on the 2009 sports sceneYao Ming, 28ANYONE who saw Yao Ming tumble to the floor against the Portland Trailblazers in the first round of the NBA Playoffs had to feel for the man. Fans watched as Yao limped towards the locker room, but then something remarkable happened: Yao turned around and checked back into the game. His gutsy refusal to abandon his team in battle helped to propel the Rockets.Lionel Messi, 22THE only blemish on Barcelona striker Lionel Messi’s record going into the 2009 Champions League final was his tendency to disappear during big matches. But late in the match against Manchester United, his team up 1-0, Messi sent a beautiful header into the net. The goal will be remembered as a symbol of a young man rising to meet a soccer ball - and the challenge of a lifetime.Roger Federer, 27CURRENT world No 2 men’s tennis player Roger Federer of Switzerland spent much of 2008 in a funk. But, so far, in 2009, Federer has won two Grand Slam titles - including the one that had always eluded him: the French Open. The victory tied him with Pete Sampras for most Grand Slam victories (14). Federer fell to his knees, as if humbled by the momentous win, only to get up and win his 15th just weeks later at Wimbledon.We may never leap into the air after hitting a game-winning shot, but who hasn’t been known to jump for joy when receiving news of a friend’s return, or a long-awaited job offer?We may never score a goal in a televised Premier League match and celebrate in the sweaty embrace of teammates, but we will have our own share of hugs and reunions.And, true, few of us will ever step onto the grass court at Wimbledon. But our own personal journeys will take us through other enchanting places, and provide us with our own moments worthy of recollection and retelling.
