Rio overcomes Olympic-sized hurdles
It was October 2009 in Copenhagen when the announcement was made. Rio de Janeiro had beaten Madrid, Tokyo and Chicago to become the host city for the 2016 Olympic Games. Brazil’s bid team danced, cried and yelled: “We did it! We did it!”It was a *monumental moment: Not only because the whole world saw Rio, a city in a developing country, outperform the best bids from developed countries, but also because Rio was expected to be the first South American city to host the Olympics. It seemed to be Rio’s time to thrive.Fast forward to 2016. Rio de Janeiro is struggling to prepare. In the months leading up to the Olympics, the city has been *battered by waves of embarrassment and public health crises.Brazil has suffered an economic recession and a slew of political scandals, including the *impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and the massive corruption exposed within a state-run oil company. The outbreak of Zika, a mosquito-borne virus, has sparked health concerns in the region. Some of the Olympic venues weren’t even completed a few weeks ago. On top of that, the threat of terrorist attacks and water contamination has caused some *onlookers to wonder if Rio was really ready to host the games.Moving forwardYet, despite all the difficulties, Rio has been moving forward. With preventative action taken against Zika, a study published by the University of Cambridge revealed that the “risks of infection are minimal”. In spite of a few *hiccups, the venues are now ready for the incoming athletes. Rio has even added a few landmarks to its skyline: Most notably, the new skeleton-shaped Museum of Tomorrow has made the coastal city more beautiful than ever.Controversy still lingers around the upcoming games, though. A large number of Russian athletes will be banned from competition for state sponsored *doping, and some of the world’s top golfers will skip the Olympic Games for fear of the Zika virus.Yet, there are still plenty of reasons to be optimistic. A cross-nation refugee team, consisting of 10 players, is expected to debut at Rio. And after four years of hard work, China is sending its largest delegation–416 athletes, including 35 Olympic champions–to Rio in hopes of scoring its largest summer medal count yet. These athletes will compete in 210 events, covering 26 different sports.The Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games is set to kick off on Aug 5. Despite all the *turbulence, Brazil’s interim president Michel Temer recently assured the public that the stage is set for a successful competition.“Brazil is ready to receive all of the visitors who will be enjoying the pleasure of watching the world’s elite international sports athletes compete,” Temer said in a statement. “And, surely, we will have a great deal to show the 5 billion viewers from around the world who will be watching the Games as well. Brazil awaits you with open arms.”
