Hoop star wins big
Kobe Bryant is better than Michael Jordan — at least as far as the NBA’s all-time scoring list is concerned.On Dec 14, the Los Angeles Lakers star reached 32,293 points in the second quarter of a game against the Minnesota Timberwolves at the Target Center, which allowed him to finally surpass Chicago Bulls legend Michael Jordan (32,292 points). Now, Bryant has moved into the third place in career scoring, with Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (38,387 points) and Karl Malone (36,928 points) ahead of him.The Timberwolves stopped the game, owner Glen Taylor presented Bryant with the game ball and a Lakers-heavy crowd gave a standing ovation. Bryant, with a big smile on his face, received hugs from teammates and the Timberwolves, and waved to the crowd.Indeed, the milestone is no small feat for Bryant, as he forged his Hall of Fame career in Jordan’s shadow. Almost since the day Bryant entered the league in 1996 at the age of 18, everything about the two invited comparison. From their sizes (each 198 cm) to the almost eerie similarities of the way they pump their fists after big shots. The debate has raged on whether Bryant can surpass Jordan all the time.Bryant seemed to long for getting rid of these comparisons. “The thing that I always bristled at was the notion that I learned everything that I know from Michael,” Bryant told Bleacher Report.However, his health issues got in the way. The 36-year-old player missed all but six games in 2013-14, first recovering from a torn Achilles and then suffering a season-ending knee injury.Jordan shot a higher field goal percentage, won six titles to the five that Bryant has now and climbed past Wilt Chamberlain into third on the list at 1,039 games in 2003 compared to Bryant’s 1,269.But Bryant’s competitiveness, tenacity and sheer will, is about as close as it gets to Jordan. “Just like we’ve never seen another player like Michael Jordan, we will never see another player like Kobe Bryant!” Lakers Hall of Famer Magic Johnson tweeted.With two all-time greats still ahead of Bryant, whether he can continue to progress remains to be seen. It may be difficult for him to push even further, but he’s certainly already entered legendary territory.
