Sensational start for Lin
What a week it’s been for Jeremy Lin.With five breakout games, the Taiwanese-American has become the NBA’s newest playmaking sensation.In the New York Knicks’ 92-85 win over the Los Angles Lakers last Saturday, Lin had a career-high 38 points. And a day later, he led the Knicks to their fifth straight victory, 100-98, to Minnesota Timberwolves.In his previous games, Lin, 23, had 23 points against the Washington, 25 points against New Jersey and 28 more against Utah in his first start.No doubt, Lin fever is starting to spread. If you haven’t already caught “Linsanity”, get ready because it’s coming, as the Knicks pin their championship hopes on the rising star.If you want to know more about Lin, here are five facts about him from the Associated Press (AP):1. He is smart. Before graduating from high school in Palo Alto, California, Lin sent his resume to all the Ivy League schools. He only got into Harvard and Brown, and he chose Harvard. In 2010, Lin graduated with a degree in economics.2. He is the first American player in the NBA of Chinese descent. Lin was born in the US and his family is Asian. Despite not being born in China, Lin has co-opted Yao Ming’s old fan base of Asian-American’s who see him as a powerful role model.3. He wasn’t drafted. After graduating from Harvard, Lin wasn’t drafted by any NBA team, which would have made him the first Ivy League alumni to be drafted since 1955.4. He started off on the Golden State Warriors. Lin first signed with the Warriors in July, 2010, but rarely played in games before the start of the fourth quarter. His first time on the court for the Worriers earned him seven points, three rebounds and two assists in just 11 minutes.5. He is a perfect fit for the Knicks. New York Knicks has been in need of a reliable point guard and to Mike D’Antoni, the Knicks coach who is going through a tough season, Lin is a most unexpected asset. “Lin just does everything easy and the rest of the guys around him are playing the way we want to play,” D’Antoni said. “I think it’s for real, and it can only get better.”
