Return of the king
Since the day LeBron James entered the NBA with the Cleveland Cavaliers, he was quickly compared to Chicago Bulls legend Michael Jordan. And he has never lived down such comparisons. Instead, he seemed to take it a step further by trying to replace Jordan in every possible way. Now that he has left the Miami Heat and returned to the Cavaliers, the “king” is expected to take Cleveland to its first championship win.James has tried to temper these high expectations. The 29-year-old player says he learned in Miami “to be very patient with the process and understand everyone always wants to see the end result, what’s at the end of the tunnel, and don’t quite understand what goes on from the start to the finish and what’s in between that. Patience is the biggest thing I’ve learned,” he told USA Today.Luckily, James is surrounded by helping hands in Cleveland. For one thing, Mike Miller, James Jones, Brendan Haywood and Shawn Marion have all hoisted the trophy before. “So we’ve got guys who understand what it takes, and it’s the hardest thing that you can ever do in your career,” James said in an interview with ESPN.For another, Kevin Love, 26 and Kyrie Irving, 22, both talented and competitive players, are willing to follow James’ leadership.“We’re playing with one of the greatest players to play this game, but there is going to be some sacrifices that we all have to make,” Irving told FanSided. “And I’m completely fine with that. As long as we have one common goal, and that’s to win a championship. I know that’s what I’m in for, and I know that’s what he’s in for and all the guys here are in for.”Love holds the same view. “He’s been where I want to go and a guy like Kyrie wants to go and guys who haven’t made it to the Finals or won a championship. He has an ability to teach us all, and we’re all in a position to really learn from him,” he told USA Today.With a team like this, James and Cleveland are now the center of the sports universe. Buckle up — it is going to be a fun ride.
