Rival nations take diplomacy to pitch
It is only natural that the world’s biggest sport has the world’s biggest rivalries. From European, warring neighbors to mortal enemies, the best sides in the world all have that team that they want to beat more than any other.What follows is by no means the definitive list. Imagine if the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea faced off against the US – or if Australia came up against its arch-enemy, New Zealand. The following will take you through the World Cup favorites and dishes up the dirt.Apples and oranges rivalryThis is a philosophical rivalry. Germany and Brazil are two nations that dominate the World Cup, but their footballing styles are like apples and oranges.Brazilian football is an attacking, free-flowing style of play. In Brazil they make sure they play ‘Joga Bonito’ (the beautiful game). German football is about efficiency and tactical mastery. In Germany, they call their team tournament team because they are so good at finding ways to win in tournaments.Amazingly, the two heavyweights have only ever played each other once in the World Cup. The 2002 World Cup Final saw Ronaldo embarrass Germany. They are on track to meet each other again in this year’s final.Battle of the blues rivalryZinedine Zidane’s baldhead striking Italian defender Marco Materazzi in the chest in the 2006 World Cup Final is one of the most iconic images in football history. It also cemented the bitter rivalry between the two blue-shirted European countries.For the last 30 years, France has had the upper hand in major tournaments. They knocked Italy out of the World Cup in 1998 on penalties. And they snatched victory from the jaws of defeat in the European Championship Final in 2000.利比里亚半岛之战Portugal and Spain share the land on the westernmost point of Europe, called the Iberian peninsula. Living so close, they have had a checkered political and cultural history. In one case, in the Middle Ages, King Philip II of Spain decided to declare himself Philip I of Portugal.On the football pitch, they couldn’t be more alike. Both teams play a similar passing game with flashes of brilliance. And both are considered perennial underachievers. Most of the Portuguese players also play in the Spanish league.If the two meet in the second round, the clash will mean more than life itself to the fans. Consider ex-Portuguese coach Luiz Felipe Scolari’s comment before a game against Spain in 2004: “This is war, and I have to kill and not be killed.”‘Hand of God’ rivalryNo two teams have more World Cup history than Argentina and England. It’s fair to say they hate each other.After the two nations fought each other in the 1982 Falklands War, they came face-to-face in a 1986 World Cup quarter final. Diego Maradona enraged most of England when he scored a crucial goal with his hand. It has gone down in history books as the “Hand of God” goal.The rivalry deepened at the 1998 World Cup when David Beckham was controversially sent off for kicking an opponent. They will meet in the quarter-finals, and – if recent history is a guide – it will be a controversial game.
