What they said in 2010 ...
1. “Spain’s name will be on the top of the world for the next four years.”Iker Casillas, the captain of Spanish soccer team, on winning the 2010 World Cup.2. “Control is very, very important because if I lost control of all these multi-millionaires in my dressingroom, I’m dead. So, if anyone steps out of my control, they’re dead.”Alex Ferguson, Manchester United manager.2. “Oh my God, it was a sleeping with my girlfriend kind of feeling!”Novak Djokovic relives the moment he was able to take shade from the heat during his first-round win at the US Open.3. “I’m still young so I try to go out as much as possible, I don’t eat right and I don’t get as much rest as I should. If I really worked at it, I could be extremely good indeed.”Usain Bolt fires a chilling warning to those chasing him at the top of the spring tree.4. “He should go back to the museum and stay there.”Diego Maradona said to Pele, who had suggested the Argentina boss only took the job because he was out of the pocket.5. “I wouldn’t truly know the feeling of failure if I hadn’t gone through all that.”Liu Xiang said his foot injury which afflicted him for more than two years after coming back to win the Asian Games 110 hurdles title in a time of 13.09.6. “I haven’t died. Right now I’m drinking a beer and eating fried chicken. What were your expecting, a funeral?”Yao Ming during and ESPN interview on Dec 17 after the Houston Rockets announced the all-star center would miss the rest of the season because of a stress fracture of his left ankle.7. “I know he wants to be the first Brit to win a Grand Slam in … what is it…150000 years?”Federer looking ahead meeting Andy Murray in the Australian Open final.8. “FIFA is a clean institution. FIFA works honestly. You are all honest, hardworking people.”Spain/Portugal bid president Angel Maria Villar goes overboard with the flattery.9. “The last time Tiger hit that many tress was when he was trying to get his car out of the driveway.”US TV host Jay Leno was less than complimentary about Tiger Woods’ performance at the Bridgestone Invitational on Aug 11.
