As Cup looms, so does terror
FOR a long time, the only physical threat facing professional athletes came on the playing field.A player might make a quick cut on the grass and blow out his knee. An angry opponent might lose his temper and send a rival sprawling. Occasionally, players might throw punches. In this age of terrorism, however, players must look out for more than a twisted ankle or an illegal tackle. They must look out for their lives.The recent attack on the Togolese football team at the African Cup in Angola has increased fear that athletes are becoming prize targets for terrorists. Indeed, officials in South Africa are already on the defensive as fears grow that famous footballers could be targeted at this summer’s World Cup."We have been moved emotionally by what has happened in Angola, but in terms of the security plan we are not concerned about that," Danny Jordaan, chief executive of the Cup’s local organizing committee, told BBC Radio Live Five. Let’s hope no violence breaks out at the World Cup. But even if the event runs without a hitch, the target on the backs of the world’s most famous athletes will only continue to grow bigger."How many people worldwide could name the Prime Minister of Togo?" wrote Vincent Hogan, a columnist with the Irish Independent, after the attack on the Togolese national team. "How many have heard of [Togo player] Emmanuel Adebayor? The answer to the second question is, of course, many multiples of the first."Hogan goes on to point out that even an unsuccessful attack can serve a terrorist group’s purpose: "The superficial reality of our lives is that a single shot being fired within earshot of a famous sports person captures attention quicker than the obliteration of a hundred faceless people."Fear not?How real is the fear of terrorism at major sporting events? Real enough to discuss it with investors of England’s most successful football club. Just days ago, Manchester United began circulating a document among investors that identified potential nightmare scenarios the club could face. These included a possible terrorist attack."Our club and our players could be potential targets of terrorism when visiting countries which have a history of terrorism and civil unrest," the report read, according to the Times of London.In the lead up to the World Cup, players will no doubt be asked to address the growing threat of terrorism to sports. They will dismiss the possibility of a security failure. They’ll say the game must go on, that they’re just going to keep doing their jobs.However, players like Togo’s Adebayor will likely offer a different answer, because they have seen the future. Traveling to another country for a match will never again be just another day at the office.As he told the BBC after the attack, and before the team decided to return home, "If the security is not sure, then we will be leaving. I don’t think [my teammates] will be ready to give their life. We will make a decision that we think is good for our career, is good for our life, and good for our families." 
