Use insider knowledge
“This is our school’s library. It’s a national-level one. See the lake over there? It’s where romance sparks in summer,” said Zheng Zhizi, 21, as she showed a group of visitors around her campus. The *automation junior at Northeast *Petroleum University has worked as a part-time tour guide for her university for three years. She is definitely in her element doing this job. After all, who knows more about a university campus than the students who live and study there? It might be time for students to look beyond the more obvious part-time jobs, such as private tutor and sales promoter, and think about how they can use the advantages they have as college students. Some novel part-time jobs related to campus life are emerging in the job market, and it’s here where college students can be top dogs. One of these new part-time jobs is that of campus headhunter. The role involves helping recruitment companies to quickly find suitable job candidates on campus. “Campuses are closed to businesses. It’s difficult for us to get in touch with students, so it’s hard to find suitable candidates on campus for our clients,” said Tian Rumi from the recruitment process *outsourcing provider Career International. The company started a nationwide project in 2010 to recruit part-time student headhunters.Campus headhunters can easily solve the problems which *hinder companies. For instance, they can make phone calls to other students and post notices on social networking sites. Then, information *regarding suitable candidates can be easily forwarded to them. Smart companies have also realized that college students make ideal marketing and sales people for trendy products, such as IT *gadgets, social networking services (SNS) and group buying. Zeng Jiying, 19, a sophomore in English at Hunan University, was the *administrator of Pengyou.com in her school during her freshman year. Pengyou.com is an SNS website launched by Tencent. It allows people from the same university to communicate online.  One of Zeng’s tasks was to choose articles with the potential to go viral and put them at the top of the page. As a big fan of SNS websites, Zeng knew exactly what to look for. Her picks included articles about a handsome cake salesperson near the campus and the romantic *confessions of love at the gate of the girls’ dorm building.Although the pay was not high –200 yuan per month on average–Zeng managed to expand her campus connections. The job also helped the then-freshman to quickly adapt to campus life and learn about the university as she read the articles written by upperclassmen. Most importantly, Tencent would reward the top Pengyou.com administrators with a summer internship.Qian Liangliang, a career consultant at Zhaopin.com, encourages students to take part-time jobs which make good use of their campus knowledge. “Enterprises are launching part-time projects to meet students’ needs,” said Qian. “They also hope to build their teams of talents earlier from among freshmen and sophomores.” But Tian Rumi warned students to focus on the part-time job openings posted on companies’ websites, as part of their campus recruitment drives.“These openings usually offer long-term training and might lead to an internship,” said Tian. “However, ads posted by a small branch of the company might only aim at getting students to fill up temporary vacancies in times of labor shortages.”
