Let World Cup Craze Begin!
I’m not a soccer fan, not even a person who knows much about soccer. But like a sizable part of the world’s population — an estimated 1 billion people — I’ve planned part of this summer around one event in particular: the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.From June 12 to July 13, the soccer world championship is probably the planet’s most popular sporting event. And the World Cup has long enjoyed a high level of popularity in China, despite the country’s low competitiveness in the sport.So, why is the World Cup such a big deal to a layman like me and billions of others?Many are in it for the spectacle. For some, it’s the coming together of people from all over the globe. And for others, it’s a rooted way of life in their country.No hard feelings if you haven’t jumped on the bandwagon yet, so long as you give it a chance.Let’s start with star power. The biggest event in soccer certainly attracts many of the sport’s biggest names and sees them fighting to lead their country to glory. Ever heard of Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo? In the World Cup games, you get to see players as good as them giving their best performances. But despite being the world’s two best soccer players, neither has won a World Cup. The beauty of soccer is that having one superstar guarantees you nothing. Both rely heavily on their 10 teammates to defy the odds.Yes, soccer games can be boring. But in the total of 64 games during the World Cup, the odds of on-field drama are much higher. One-sided victories, last-minute turnarounds, penalty shootouts — history always repeats itself by offering exciting matches.If star power and drama can’t convince you to pay more attention to the tournament, you’ll certainly enjoy the parties.Around the world, hundreds of thousands will pack public spaces for viewing parties complete with food, beer and other activities. If you’re more into the pub scene, many bars will be packed shoulder-to-shoulder with supporters. There, very likely, hugs will be shared between strangers and rounds will be bought for entire floors.In short, there really is something for everyone in the World Cup. It’s one of the few events in the world that truly unites us all, and it only takes place every four years. Trust me when I say that’s a long time to wait if you miss the boat this time around.
