Messi’s downfall
Lionel Messi stood at the *penalty line at the MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, US. He stared at the ball with a *grim look, brows *furrowed. He then charged, kicking the ball with his left foot. But as the goalkeeper dove to the right, the ball flew left – soaring straight over the goal bar.That was one of the fatal missteps that determined the final match of this year’s Copa America on June 26. Chile beat Argentina 4-2 on penalty kicks, after Messi and his Argentine teammate Lucas Biglia both failed to land their shots in the goal.It was a *devastating defeat for Messi, Argentina’s team captain. It was his third *consecutive near-miss at winning a major international tournament, since losing to Germany at the 2014 World Cup final.The 29-year-old, five-time FIFA Ballon d’Or winner announced his intention to quit the national team after the game. “I’ve tried a lot to be champion with Argentina. It didn’t happen, I couldn’t do it,” a crestfallen Messi said.In the past, Argentina, a traditional soccer powerhouse, has won the World Cup twice and the Copa America 14 times. But the country has been unable to bring home a single international title since Messi joined its team, though Messi is generally acknowledged to be one of the world’s best soccer players.Team Argentina was under considerable pressure to win, as the whole nation seemed to be yearning for a Copa victory. A win in the final would have given Argentina its first championship in 23 years. Even Argentinean soccer legend Diego Maradona jokingly sent a message to the team: “Win or don’t come back!”Now that the team has choked in a final yet again, Messi’s legacy as its captain is thrown into question. Messi has long competed with Maradona for the title of Argentina’s top soccer player. But his *detractors point out that Messi *cracks under pressure, and Maradona doesn’t. Take the 1986 World Cup for example: Maradona sank two historic goals in the quarterfinals against Argentina’s longtime rival England, before leading his team to win the tournament. His performance that year is widely considered the best in history.Messi has had proud moments wearing the blue-and-white Argentine jersey. He is the country’s top scorer, with 55 goals, while playing for the national team. If not for Messi, Argentina might not have made it to so many finals in the last three years. But that’s little *consolation for the soccer superstar. In the world of competitive sports, the winner takes all.Messi’s talent is undeniable. With the Spanish soccer club FC Barcelona, he has been nothing but a huge success. He has led the club to eight Spanish titles and four Champions League trophies, as its core player.Argentina fans have long hoped he could *replicate that success at home. The question now remains: Will a *sober Messi reconsider his decision and come back?
