Ning goes for the gold
With good looks, a perfect figure, and a total of four gold medals, 21-year-old athlete Ning Zetao easily proved himself to be a rising star during the 17th Asian Games, which is being held in Incheon, South Korea from Sept 19 to Oct 4.Ning won four gold medals: 50-meter freestyle, 100-meter freestyle, 4x100m freestyle relay, and 4x100m medley relay. Most impressive was his performance in the 100m freestyle race, during which he set a new Asian record of 47.70 seconds. The Fédération Internationale de Natation (FINA) recognized this as the world’s third fastest performance this year.“This title is significant for Chinese swimming development,” Chen Yunpeng, the former head coach of national swimming team told Xinhua New Agency. In the past, short-distance free style swimming competitions were dominated by players from Western countries. “But Ning’s victory proves that it is possible for Chinese or even Asian swimming players to make a breakthrough in this event.”Ning clocked in at 46.91 seconds during the last leg of the 4x100m medley relay, vaulting the Chinese team toward its win of the relay in 3 minutes 31.37 seconds, a new Asian Games record. Meanwhile, the athlete downplayed the fact that his time equaled the world record.These achievements are not a first. In the 12th National Games of 2013, he broke the Asian record for the 50-meter and 100-meter freestyle competition, proving his skills in the pool.From Henan province, he moved to the swimming team of the People’s Liberation Navy from his provincial swimming team in 2007. “He is not especially talented, but he listens to the coach and learn every stroke carefully,” his previous coach Guo Hongyan told Henan Daily.Humble and handsomeAside from his excellent swimming abilities, Ning is also getting attention for his cool looks. His straight nose, big eyes, masculine figure and an army background are bringing him legions of fans. Before Sept 23, his followers on Weibo numbered less than 10,000, but in just two days that number skyrocketed to 150,000. Shortly after he won the medal for the 4x100m medley relay, his follower count stood at more than 250,000.In the face of intensifying media attention, Ning is staying humble and disciplined. After each interview he bows and expresses gratitude. He was surprised to see throngs of fans waiting to welcome him at the airport after the games.According to an analysis by Chen Yunpeng, Ning’s advantages stem from his height of 1.91 meters and 80-kilogram weight, which allow him to glide through the water with little obstruction. Ning also has coach Ye Jin, who has cultivated talents like Qi Hui, behind him. Coupled with the discipline he learned in the army, it seems nothing can stop Ning from growing into a promising swimmer.The Asian Games are just the beginning for Ning. There is good reason to believe he’ll continue to amaze us in the years to come.
