Get in the swim this summer
Temperatures are soaring and that means hot summer is here at last. For many, this means it’s time to head to the beach for sun, sea and sand. If, however, you are unsure which style of swimsuit to choose, let 21st Century help you make the right choice to make a splash this summer.  One piece This tight, form-fitting swimsuit style was born in the 1900s when women grew tired of the heavy wool dresses they’d been wearing to cover their bodies in public baths. The one-piece swimsuit, in revealing the arms and knees, allowed levels of public skin exposure unheard of since Roman times. When Australian actress and swimmer Annette Kellerman *sported a one-piece in Boston in 1907, the police arrested her for *indecency.However, this didn’t stop the rise of the one-piece. It became the norm for women over the next 20 years and is still very much in fashion today.BikiniThe bikini came as a *bombshell in 1946. It was devised by French fashion designer Louis Reard, who named the creation after the Pacific Ocean *atoll, where the American government *detonated the first postwar nuclear bomb.The *skimpy, two-piece swimsuit is an aftereffect of fabric rationing during World War II, when the American government directed that the cloth used in women’s beachwear should be reduced by 10 percent to *conserve fabric. Claimed as the world’s smallest bathing suit on its launch, the bikini was initially banned in conservative Catholic countries. It didn’t rise in popularity until the 1950s, when screen icons, including French movie star Brigitte Bardot, were photographed in them. SpeedoThe word “speedo” now refers to any *brief-style *spandex swimwear for men. But the name comes from the Australian swimsuit maker Speedo.Speedos debuted in 1956 at the Melbourne Summer Olympics, where the Speedo-sponsored Australian men’s swim team won eight gold medals. This afforded Speedos worldwide attention. Speedos have since become a controversial piece of swimwear. They have become the norm on the beaches of Europe, but American people would rather not have to look at them. According to a survey by travel website Tripadvisor, which questioned 3,800 American respondents, 35 percent said that men in tight-fitting speedos are “a violation of beach *etiquette”.
